<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head><meta name="charset" content="UTF-8"/><title></title><link rel="stylesheet" href="main.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><h1><a id="bookmark0"></a>THE MAN WITH NO FACE</h1>
<p>“And what would <span style="font-style:italic;">you</span> say, sir,” said the stout man, “to this here business of the bloke what’s been found down on&#160;the beach at East Felpham?”</p>
<p>The rush of travellers after the Bank Holiday had caused an overflow of third-class passengers into the firsts,&#160;and the stout man was anxious to seem at ease in his&#160;surroundings. The youngish gentleman whom he addressed&#160;had obviously paid full fare for a seclusion which he was&#160;fated to forgo. He took the matter amiably enough, however, and replied in a courteous tone:</p>
<p>“I’m afraid I haven’t read more than the headlines. Murdered, I suppose, wasn’t he?”</p>
<p>“It’s murder, right enough,” said the stout man, with relish. “Cut about he was, something shocking.”</p>
<p>“More like as if a wild beast had done it,” chimed in the thin, elderly man opposite. “No face at all he hadn’t&#160;got, by what my paper says. It’ll be one of these maniacs,&#160;I shouldn’t be surprised, what goes about killing children.”</p>
<p>“I wish you wouldn’t talk about such things,” said his wife, with a shudder. “I lays awake at nights thinking&#160;what might ’appen to Lizzie’s girls, till my head feels&#160;regular in a fever, and I has such a sinking in my inside I&#160;has to get up and eat biscuits. They didn’t ought to put&#160;such dreadful things in the papers.”</p>
<p>“It’s better they should, ma’am,” said the stout man, “then we’re warned, so to speak, and can take our measures accordingly. Now, from what I can make out, this&#160;unfortunate gentleman had gone bathing all by himself in&#160;a lonely spot. Now, quite apart from cramps, as is a thing&#160;that might ’appen to the best of us, that’s a very foolish&#160;thing to do.”</p>
<p>“Just what I’m always telling my husband,” said the young wife. The young husband frowned and fidgeted.</p>
<p>“Well, dear, it really isn’t safe, and you with your heart not strong-” Her hand sought his under the newspa</p>
<p>per. He drew away, self-consciously, saying, “That’ll do,</p>
<p>Kitty.”</p>
<p>“The way I look at it is this,” pursued the stout man. “Here we’ve been and had a war, what has left ’undreds&#160;o’ men in what you might call a state of unstable ekilibri-um. They’ve seen all their friends blown up or shot to&#160;pieces. They’ve been through five years of ’orrors and&#160;bloodshed, and it’s given ’em what you might call a twist&#160;in the mind towards ’orrors. They may seem to forget it&#160;and go along as peaceable as anybody to all outward&#160;appearance, but it’s all artificial, if you get my meaning.&#160;Then, one day something ’appens to upset them—they ’as&#160;words with the wife, or the weather’s extra hot, as it is&#160;to-day—and something goes pop inside their brains and&#160;makes raving monsters of them. It’s all in the books. I do a&#160;good bit of reading myself of an evening, being a bachelor&#160;without encumbrances.”</p>
<p>“That’s all very true,” said a prim little man, looking up from his magazine, “very true indeed—too true. But do&#160;you think it applies in the present case? I’ve studied the&#160;literature of crime a good deal—I may say I make it my&#160;hobby—and it’s my opinion there’s more in this than&#160;meets the eye. If you will compare this murder with some&#160;of the most mysterious crimes of late years—crimes which,&#160;mind you, have never been solved, and, in my opinion,&#160;never will be—what do you find?” He paused and looked&#160;round. “You will find many features in common with this&#160;case. But especially you will find that the face—and the&#160;face only, mark you—has been disfigured, as though to&#160;prevent recognition. As though to blot out the victim’s&#160;personality from the world. And you will find that, in spite&#160;of the most thorough investigation, the criminal is never&#160;discovered. Now what does all that point to? To organisation. Organisation. To an immensely powerful influence at&#160;work behind the scenes. In this very magazine that I’m&#160;reading now”—he tapped the page impressively—“there’s&#160;an account—not a faked-up story, but an account extracted from the annals of the police—of the organisation of&#160;one of these secret societies, which mark down men against&#160;whom they bear a grudge, and destroy them. And,&#160;when they do this, they disfigure their faces with the mark&#160;of the Secret Society, and they cover up the track of the&#160;assassin so completely—having money and resources at&#160;their disposal that nobody is ever able to get at them.”</p>
<p>“I’ve read of such things, of course,” admitted the stout man, “but I thought as they mostly belonged to the&#160;medeevial days. They had a thing like that in Italy once.&#160;What did they call it now? A Gomorrah, was it? Are there&#160;any Gomorrahs nowadays?”</p>
<p>“You spoke a true word, sir, when you said Italy,” replied the prim man. “The Italian mind is made for&#160;intrigue. There’s the Fascisti. That’s come to the surface&#160;now, of course, but it started by being a secret society.&#160;And, if you were to look below the surface, you would be&#160;amazed at the way in which that country is honeycombed&#160;with hidden organisations of all sorts. Don’t you agree&#160;with me, sir?” he added, addressing the first-class passenger.</p>
<p>“Ah!” said the stout man, “no doubt this gentleman has been in Italy and knows all about it. Should you say this&#160;murder was the work of a Gomorrah, sir?”</p>
<p>“I hope not, I’m sure,” said the first-class passenger. “I mean, it rather destroys the interest, don’t you think? I like&#160;a nice, quiet, domestic murder myself with the millionaire&#160;found dead in the library. The minute I open a detective&#160;story and find a Camorra in it, my interest seems to dry up&#160;and turn to dust and ashes—a sort of Sodom and Camorra, as you might say.”</p>
<p>“I agree with you there,” said the young husband, “from what you might call the artistic standpoint. But in&#160;this particular case I think there may be something to be&#160;said for this gentleman’s point of view.”</p>
<p>“Well,” admitted the first-class passenger, “not having</p>
<p>read the details-”</p>
<p>“The details are clear enough,” said the prim man. “This poor creature was found lying dead on the beach at&#160;East Felpham early this morning, with his face cut about&#160;in the most dreadful manner. He had nothing on him but</p>
<p>his bathing-dress-”</p>
<p>“Stop a minute. Who was he, to begin with?”</p>
<p>“They haven’t identified him yet. His clothes had been taken-”</p>
<p>“That looks more like robbery, doesn’t it?” suggested Kitty.</p>
<p>“If it was just robbery,” retorted the prim man, “why should his face have been cut up in that way? No—the&#160;clothes were taken away, as I said, to prevent identification. That’s what these societies always try to do.”</p>
<p>“Was he stabbed?” demanded the first-class passenger.</p>
<p>“No,” said the stout man. “He wan’t. He was strangled.”</p>
<p>“Not a characteristically Italian method of killing,” observed the first-class passenger.</p>
<p>“No more it is,” said the stout man. The prim man seeemed a little disconcerted.</p>
<p>“And if he went down there to bathe,” said the thin, elderly man, “how did he get there? Surely somebody&#160;must have missed him before now, if he was staying at&#160;Felpham. It’s a busy spot for visitors in the holiday&#160;season.”</p>
<p>“No,” said the stout man, “not East Felpham. You’re thinking of West Felpham, where the yacht-club is. East&#160;Felpham is one of the loneliest spots on the coast. There’s&#160;no house near except a little pub all by itself at the end of&#160;a long road, and after that you have to go through three&#160;fields to get to the sea. There’s no real road, only a&#160;cart-track, but you can take a car through. I’ve been&#160;there.”</p>
<p>“He came in a car,” said the prim man. “They found the track of the wheels. But it had been driven away&#160;again.”</p>
<p>“It looks as thoiigh the two men had come there together,” suggested Kitty.</p>
<p>“I think they did,” said the prim man. “The victim was probably gagged and bound and taken along in the car to&#160;the place, and then he was taken out and strangled&#160;and--”</p>
<p>“But why should they have troubled to put on his bathing-dress?” said the first-class passenger.</p>
<p>“Because,” said the prim man, “as I said, they didn’t want to leave any clothes to reveal his identity.”</p>
<p>“Quite: but why not leave him naked? A bathing-dress seems to indicate an almost excessive regard for decorum,&#160;under the circumstances.”</p>
<p>“Yes, yes,” said the stout man impatiently, “but you ’aven’t read the paper carefully. The two men couldn’t&#160;have come there in company, and for why? There was&#160;only one set of footprints found, and they belonged to t)ie&#160;murdered man.”</p>
<p>He looked round triumphantly.</p>
<p>“Only one set of footprints, eh?” said the first-class passenger quickly. “This looks interesting. Are you&#160;sure?”</p>
<p>“It says so in the paper. A single set of footprints, it says, made by bare feet, which by a careful comparison</p>
<p>*ave been shown to be those of the murdered man, lead from the position occupied by the car to the place where&#160;the body was found. What do you make of that?”</p>
<p>“Why,” said the first-class passenger, “that tells one quite a lot, don’t you know. It gives one a sort of a bird’s&#160;eye view of the place, and it tells one the time of the murder, besides castin’ quite a good bit of light on the character and circumstances of the murderer—or murderers.”&#160;“How do you make that out, sir?” demanded the elderly&#160;man.</p>
<p>“Well, to begin with—though I’ve never been near the place, there is obviously a sandy beach from which one&#160;can bathe.”</p>
<p>“That’s right,” said the stout man.</p>
<p>“There is also, I fancy, in the neighbourhood, a spur of rock running out into the sea, quite possibly with a handy&#160;diving-pool. It must run out pretty far; at any rate, one&#160;can bathe there before it is high water on the beach.”</p>
<p>“I don’t know how you know that, sir, but it’s a fact. There’s rocks and a bathing-pool, exactly as you describe,&#160;about a hundred yards farther along. Many’s the time I’ve&#160;had a dip off the end of them.”</p>
<p>“And the rocks run right back inland, where they are covered with short grass.”</p>
<p>“That’s right.”</p>
<p>“The murder took place shortly before high tide, I fancy, and the body lay just about at high-tide mark.”</p>
<p>“Why so?”</p>
<p>“Well, you say there were footsteps leading right up to the body. That means that the water hadn’t been up beyond&#160;the body. But there were no other marks. Therefore the&#160;murderer’s footprints must have been washed away by the&#160;tide. The only explanation is that the two men were&#160;standing together just below the tide-mark. The murderer&#160;came up out of the sea. He attacked the other man—&#160;maybe he forced him back a little on his own tracks—and&#160;there he killed him. Then the water came up and washed&#160;out any marks the murderer may have left. One can&#160;imagine him squatting there, wondering if the sea w^s&#160;going to come up high enough.”</p>
<p>“Ow!” said Kitty, “you make me creep all over.”</p>
<p>“Now, as to these marks on the face,” pursued the first-class passenger. “The murderer, according to the idea&#160;I get of the thing, was already in the sea when the victim&#160;came along. You see the idea?”</p>
<p>“I get you,” said the stout man. “You think as he went</p>
<p>in off them rocks what we was speaking of, and came up through the water, and that’s why there weren’t no footprints.”</p>
<p>“Exactly. And since the water is deep round those rocks, as you say, he was presumably in a bathing-dress&#160;too.”</p>
<p>“Looks like it.”</p>
<p>“Quite so. Well, now—what was the face-slashing done with? People don’t usually take knives out with them when&#160;they go for a morning dip.”</p>
<p>“That’s a puzzle,” said the stout man.</p>
<p>“Not altogether. Let’s say, either the murderer had a knife with him or he had not. If he had-”</p>
<p>“If he had,” put in the prim man eagerly, “he must have laid wait for the deceased on purpose. And, to my&#160;mind, that bears out my idea of a deep and cunning&#160;plot”</p>
<p>“Yes. But, if he was waiting there with the knife, why didn’t he stab the man and have done with it? Why&#160;strangle him, when he had a perfectly good weapon there&#160;to hand? No—I think he came unprovided, and, when he&#160;saw his enemy there, he made for him with his hands in&#160;the characteristic British way.”</p>
<p>“But the slashing?”</p>
<p>“Well, I think that when he had got his man down, dead before him, he was filled with a pretty grim sort of&#160;fury and wanted to do more damage. He caught up&#160;something that was lying near him on the sand—it might&#160;be a bit of old iron, or even one of those sharp shells you&#160;sometimes see about, or a bit of glass—and he went for&#160;him with that in a desperate rage of jealousy or hatred.”</p>
<p>&quot;Dreadful, dreadful!” said the elderly woman.</p>
<p>“Of course, one can only guess in the dark, not having seen the wounds. It’s quite possible that the murderer&#160;dropped his knife in the struggle and had to do the actual&#160;killing with his hands, picking the knife up afterwards. If&#160;the wounds were clean knife-wounds, that is probably&#160;what happened, and the murder was premeditated. But if&#160;they were rough, jagged gashes, made by an impromptu&#160;weapon, then I should say it was a chance encounter, and&#160;that the murderer was either mad or-”</p>
<p>“Or?”</p>
<p>Or had suddenly come upon somebody whom he hated very much.”</p>
<p>“What do you think happened afterwards?”</p>
<p>“That’s pretty clear. The murderer, having waited, as I said, to see that all his footprints were cleaned up by the&#160;tide, waded or swam back to the rock where he had left&#160;his clothes, taking the weapon with him. The sea would&#160;wash away any blood from his bathing-dress or&#160;body. He then climbed out upon the rocks, walked, with&#160;bare feet, so as to leave no tracks on any seaweed or&#160;anything, to the short grass of the shore, dressed, went&#160;along to the murdered man’s car, and drove it away.”</p>
<p>“Why did he do that?”</p>
<p>“Yes, why? He may have wanted to get somewhere in a hurry. Or he may have been afraid that if the murdered&#160;man were identified too soon it would cast suspicion on&#160;him. Or it may have been a mixture of motives. The point&#160;is, where did he come from? How did he come to be&#160;bathing at that remote spot, early in the morning? He&#160;didn’t get there by car, or there would be a second car to&#160;be accounted for. He may have been camping near the&#160;spot; but it would have taken him a long time to strike&#160;camp and pack all his belongings into the car, and he&#160;might have been seen. I am rather inclined to think he had&#160;bicycled there, and that he hoisted the bicycle into the&#160;back of the car and took it away with him.”</p>
<p>“But, in that case, why take the car?”</p>
<p>“Because he had been down at East Felpham longer than he expected, and he was afraid of being late. Either&#160;he had to get back to breakfast at some house, where his&#160;absence would be noticed, or else he lived some distance&#160;off, and had only just time enough for the journey home. I&#160;think, though, he had to be back to breakfast.”</p>
<p>“Why?”</p>
<p>“Because, if it was merely a question of making up time on the road, all he had to do was to put himself and his&#160;bicycle on the train for part of the way. No; I fancy he&#160;was staying in a smallish hotel somewhere. Not a large&#160;hotel, because there nobody would notice whether he&#160;came in or not. And not, I think, in lodgings, or somebody&#160;would have mentioned before now that they had had a&#160;lodger who went bathing at East Felpham. Either he lives&#160;in the neighbourhood, in which case he should be easy to&#160;trace, or was staying with friends who have an interest in&#160;concealing his movements. Or else—which I think is more&#160;likely—he was in a smallish hotel, where he would be&#160;missed from the breakfast-table, but where his favourite&#160;bathing-place was not matter of common nowledge.”</p>
<p>“That seems feasible,” said the stout man.</p>
<p>“In any case,” went on the first-class passenger, “he must have been staying within easy bicycling distance of&#160;East Felpham, so it shouldn’t be too hard to trace him.&#160;And then there is the car.”</p>
<p>“Yes. Where is the car, on your theory?” demanded the prim man, who obviously still had hankerings after the&#160;Camorra theory.</p>
<p>“In a garage, waiting to be called for,” said the first-class passenger promptly.</p>
<p>“Where?” persisted the prim man.</p>
<p>“Oh! somewhere on the other side of wherever it was the murderer was staying. If you have a particular reason&#160;for not wanting it to be known that you were in a certain&#160;place at a specified time, it’s not a bad idea to come back&#160;from the opposite direction. I rather think I should look&#160;for the car at West Felpham, and the hotel in the nearest&#160;town on the main road beyond where the two roads to&#160;East and West Felpham join. When you’ve found the car,&#160;you’ve found the name of the victim, naturally. As for the&#160;murderer, you will have to look for an active man, a good&#160;swimmer and ardent bicyclist—probably not very well off,&#160;since he cannot afford to have a car—who has been taking&#160;a holiday in the neighbourhood of the Felphams, and who&#160;has a good reason for disliking the victim, whoever he&#160;may be.”</p>
<p>“Well, I never,” said the elderly woman admiringly. “How beautiful you do put it all together. Like Sherlock&#160;Holmes, I do declare.”</p>
<p>“It’s a very pretty theory,” said the prim man, “but, all the same, you’ll find it’s a secret society. Mark my words.&#160;Dear me! We’re just running in. Only twenty minutes late.&#160;I call that very good for holiday-time. Will you excuse&#160;me? My bag is just under your feet.”</p>
<p>There was an eighth person in the compartment, who had remained throughout the conversation apparently&#160;buried in a newspaper. As the passengers decanted themselves upon the platform, this man touched the first-class&#160;passenger upon the arm.</p>
<p>“Excuse me, sir,” he said. “That was a very interesting suggestion of yours. My name is Winterbottom and I am&#160;investigating this case. Do you mind giving me your name?&#160;I might wish to communicate with you later on.”</p>
<p>‘ Certainly,” said the first-class passenger. “Always delighted to have a finger in any pie, don’t you know. Here is my card. Look me up any time you like.”</p>
<p>Detective-Inspector Winterbottom took the card and read the name:</p>
<p><span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Lord Peter Wimsey,</span></p>
<p><span style="font-variant:small-caps;">110a Picadilly.</span></p>
<p>The <span style="font-style:italic;">Evening Views</span> vendor outside Piccadilly Tube Station arranged his placard with some care. It looked very well, he thought.</p>
<p>MAN WITH NO FACE&#160;IDENTIFIED</p>
<p>It was, in his opinion, considerably more striking than that displayed by a rival organ, which announced, unimaginatively:</p>
<p>BEACH MURDER VICTIM&#160;IDENTIFIED</p>
<p>A youngish gentleman in a grey suit who emerged at that moment from the Criterion Bar appeared to think so&#160;too, for he exchanged a copper for the <span style="font-style:italic;">Evening Views,&#160;</span>and at once plunged into its perusal with such concentrated interest that he bumped into a hurried man outside the&#160;station and had to apologise.</p>
<p>The <span style="font-style:italic;">Evening Views,</span> grateful to murderer and victim alike for providing so useful a sensation in the dead days&#160;after the Bank Holiday, had torn Messrs. Negretti &amp;&#160;Zambra’s rocketing thermometrical statistics from the&#160;“banner” position which they had occupied in the lunch&#160;edition, and substituted:</p>
<p><span style="font-variant:small-caps;">“Faceless Victim of Beach Outrage Identified</span></p>
<p>MURDER OF PROMINENT PUBLICITY ARTIST</p>
<p>POLICE CLUES</p>
<p>“The body of a middle-aged man who was discovered, attired only in a bathing-costume and with his face horribly disfigured by some jagged instrument, on the beach at&#160;East Felpham last Monday morning, has been identified as</p>
<p>207</p>
<p>that of Mr. Coreggio Plant, studio manager of Messrs. Crichton Ltd., die well-known publicity experts of Hol-born.</p>
<p>“Mr. Plant, who was forty-five years of age and a bachelor, was spending his annual holiday in making a&#160;motoring tour along the West Coast. He had no companion with him and had left no address for the forwarding&#160;of letters, so that, without the smart work of Detective-Inspector Winterbottom of the Westshire police, his disappearance might not in the ordinary way have been noticed&#160;until he became due to return to his place of business in&#160;three weeks time. The murderer had no doubt counted on&#160;this, and had removed the motorcar, containing the belongings of his victim, in the hope of covering up all traces of&#160;this dastardly outrage so as to gain time for escape.</p>
<p>“A rigorous search for the missing car, however, eventuated in its discovery in a garage at West Felpham, where it had been left for decarbonisation and repairs to the magneto. Mr. Spiller, the garage proprietor, himself saw the&#160;man who left the car, and* has furnished a description of&#160;him to the police. He is said to be a small, dark man of&#160;foreign appearance. The police hold a clue to his identity,&#160;and an arrest is confidently expected in the near future.</p>
<p>“Mr. Plant was for fifteen years in the employment of Messrs. Crichton, being appointed Studio Manager in the&#160;latter years of the war. He was greatly liked by all his&#160;colleagues, and his skill in the lay-out and designing of&#160;advertisements did much to justify the truth of Messrs.&#160;Crichton’s well-known slogan. ‘Crichton’s for Admirable&#160;Advertising.’</p>
<p>The funeral of the victim will take place to-morrow at Golders Green Cemetery.</p>
<p>“(Pictures on Back Page.)”</p>
<p>Lord Peter Wimsey turned to the back page. The portrait of the victim did not detain him long; it was one of those characterless studio photographs which establish&#160;nothing except that the sitter has a tolerable set of&#160;features. He noted that Mr. Plant had been thin rather&#160;than fat, commercial in appearance rather than artistic, and&#160;that the photographer had chosen to show him serious&#160;rather than smiling. A picture of East Felpham beach,&#160;marked with a cross where the body was found, seemed to&#160;arouse in him rather more than a casual interest. He&#160;studied it intently for some time, making little surprised&#160;noises. There was no obvious reason why he should have</p>
<p>been surprised, for the photograph bore out in every detail the deductions he had made in the train. There was&#160;the curved line of sand, with a long spur of rock&#160;stretching out behind it into deep water, and running back&#160;till it mingled with the short, dry turf. Nevertheless, he&#160;looked at it for several minutes with close attention,&#160;before folding the newspaper and hailing a taxi; and when&#160;he was in the taxi he unfolded the paper and looked at it&#160;again.</p>
<p>“Your lordship having been kind enough,” said Inspector Winterbottom, emptying his glass rather too rapidly for true connoisseurship, “to suggest I should look you up&#160;in Town, I made bold to give you a call in passing. Thank&#160;you, I won’t say no. Well, as you’ve seen in the papers by&#160;now, we found that car all right.”</p>
<p>Wimsey expressed his gratification at this result.</p>
<p>“And very much obliged I was to your lordship for the hint,” went on the Inspector generously, “not but what I&#160;wouldn’t say but I should have come to the same conclusion myself, given a little more time. And, what’s more,&#160;we’re on the track of the man.”</p>
<p>“I see he’s supposed to be foreign-looking. Don’t say he’s going to turn out to be a Camorrist after all!”</p>
<p>“No, my lord.” The Inspector winked. “Our friend in the comer had got his magazine stories a bit on the brain,&#160;if you ask me. And <span style="font-style:italic;">you</span> were a bit out too, my lord, with&#160;your bicyclist idea.”</p>
<p>“Was I? That’s a blow.”</p>
<p>“Well, my lord, these here theories <span style="font-style:italic;">sound</span> all right, but half the time they’re too fine-spun altogether. Go for the&#160;facts—that’s our motto in the Force—facts and motive,&#160;and you won’t go far wrong.”</p>
<p>“Oh! you’ve discovered the motive, then?”</p>
<p>The Inspector winked again.</p>
<p>“There’s not many motives for doing a man in,” said he. “Women or money—or women <span style="font-style:italic;">and</span> money—it mostly&#160;comes down to one or the other. This fellow Plant went in&#160;for being a bit of a lad, you see. He kept a little cottage&#160;down Felpham way, with a nice little skirt to furnish it and&#160;keep the love-nest warm for him—see?”</p>
<p>“Oh. I thought he was doing a motor-tour.”</p>
<p>“Motor-tour your foot!” said the Inspector, with more energy than politeness. “That’s what the old [epithet] told&#160;’em at the office. Handy reason, don’t you see, for leaving&#160;no address behind him. No, no. There was a lady in it all</p>
<p>right. I’ve seen her. A very taking piece too, if you like ’em skinny, which I don’t. I prefer ’em better upholstered&#160;myself.”</p>
<p>“That chair is really more comfortable with a cushion,” put in Wimsey, with anxious solicitude. “Allow me.”</p>
<p>“Thanks, my lord, thanks. I’m doing very well. It seems that <span style="text-decoration:underline;">this</span> woman—by the way, we’re speaking in confidence, you understand. I don’t want this to go further till&#160;I’ve got my man under lock and key.”</p>
<p>Wimsey promised discretion.</p>
<p>“That’s all right, my lord, that’s all right. I know I can rely on you. Well, the long and the short is, this young&#160;woman had another fancy man—a sort of an Italiano,&#160;whom she’d chucked for Plant, and this same dago got&#160;wind of the business and came down to East Felpham on&#160;the Sunday night, looking for her. He’s one of these&#160;professional partners in a Palais de Danse up Cricklewood&#160;way, and that’s where the girl comes from, too. I suppose&#160;she thought Plant was a cut above him. Anyway, down he&#160;comes, and busts in upon them Sunday night when they&#160;were having a bit of supper—and that’s when the row&#160;started.”</p>
<p>“Didn’t you know about this cottage, and the goings-on there?”</p>
<p>“Well, you know, there’s such a lot of these weekenders nowadays. We can’t keep tabs on all of them, so long as they behave themselves and don’t make a disturbance. The woman’s been there—so they tell me—since&#160;last June, with him coming down Saturday to Monday;&#160;but it’s a lonely spot, and the constable didn’t take much&#160;notice. He came in the evenings, so there wasn’t anybody&#160;much to recognise him, except the old girl who did the&#160;slops and things, and she’s half-blind. And of course, when&#160;they found him, he hadn’t any face to recognise. It’d be&#160;thought he’d just gone off in the ordinary way. I dare say&#160;the dago fellow reckoned on that. As I was saying, there&#160;was a big row, and the dago was kicked out. He must&#160;have lain wait for Plant down by the bathing-place, and&#160;done him in.”</p>
<p>“By strangling?” &#160;&#160;&#160;-&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;-rjs</p>
<p>“Well, he <span style="font-style:italic;">was</span> strangled.”</p>
<p>“Was his face cut up with a knife, then?”</p>
<p>“Well, no—I don’t think it was a knife. More like a broken bottle, I should say, if you ask me. There’s plenty&#160;of them come in with the tide.”</p>
<p>“But then we’re brought back to our old problem. If</p>
<p>this Italian was lying in wait to murder Plant, why didn’t he take a weapon with him, instead of trusting to the&#160;chance of his hands and a broken bottle?”</p>
<p>The Inspector shook his head.</p>
<p>“Flighty,” he said. “All these foreigners are flighty. No headpiece. But there’s our man and there’s our motive,&#160;plain as a pikestaff. You don’t want more.”</p>
<p>“And where is the Italian fellow now?”</p>
<p>“Run away. That’s pretty good proof of guilt in itself. But we’ll have him before long. That’s what I’ve come to&#160;Town about. He can’t get out of the country. I’ve had an&#160;all-stations call sent out to stop him. The dance-hall people were able to supply us with a photo and a good&#160;description. I’m expecting a report in now any minute. In&#160;fact, I’d best be getting along. Thank you very much for&#160;your hospitality, my lord.”</p>
<p>“The pleasure is mine,” said Wimsey, ringing the bell to have the visitor shown out. “I have enjoyed our little chat&#160;immensely.”</p>
<p>Sauntering into the Falstaff at twelve o’clock the following morning, Wimsey, as he had expected, found Sal-combe Hardy supporting his rather plump contours against the bar. The reported greeted his arrival with a heartiness amounting almost to enthusiasm, and called for two&#160;large Scotches immediately. When the usual skirmish as to&#160;who should pay had been honourably settled by the&#160;prompt disposal of the drinks and the standing of two&#160;more, Wimsey pulled from his pocket the copy of last&#160;night’s <span style="font-style:italic;">Evening Views.</span></p>
<p>‘1 wish you’d ask the people over at your place to get hold of a decent print of this for me,” he said, indicating&#160;the picture of East Felpham beach.</p>
<p>Salcombe Hardy gazed limpid enquiry at him from eyes like drowned violets.</p>
<p>“See here, you old sleuth,” he said, “does this mean you’ve got a theory about the thing? I’m wanting a story&#160;badly. Must keep up the excitement, you know. The police&#160;don’t seem to have got any further since last night.”</p>
<p>“No; I’m interested in this from another point of view altogether. I did have a theory—of sorts—but it seems it’s&#160;all wrong. Bally old Homer nodding, I suppose. But I’d&#160;like a copy of the thing.”</p>
<p>“I’ll get Warren to get you one when we come back. I’m just taking him down with me to Crichton’s. We’re</p>
<p>going to have a look at a picture. I say, I wish you’d come too. Tell me what to say about the damned thing.”</p>
<p>‘‘Good God! I don’t know anything about commercial art.”</p>
<p>“ ’Tisn’t commercial art. It’s supposed to be a portrait of this blighter Plant. Done by one of the chaps in his&#160;studio or something. Kid who told me about it says it’s&#160;clever. I don’t know. Don’t suppose she knows, either.&#160;You go in for being artistic, don’t you?”</p>
<p>“I wish you wouldn’t use such filthy expressions, Sally. Artistic! Who is this girl?”</p>
<p>“Typist in the copy department.”</p>
<p>“Oh, Sally!”</p>
<p>“Nothing of that sort. I’ve never met her. Name’s Gladys Twitterton. I’m sure that’s beastly enough to put&#160;anybody off. Rang us up last night and told us there was&#160;a bloke there who’d done old Plant in oils and was it any&#160;use to us? Drummer thought it might be worth looking&#160;into. Make a change from that everlasting syndicated&#160;photograph.”</p>
<p>“I see. If you haven’t got an exclusive story, an exclusive picture’s better than nothing. The girl seems to have her wits about her. Friend of the artist’s?”</p>
<p>“No—said he’d probably be frightfully annoyed at her having told me. But I can wangle that. Only I wish you’d&#160;come and have a look at it. Tell me whether I ought to&#160;say it’s an unknown masterpiece or merely a striking&#160;likeness.”</p>
<p>“How the devil can I say if it’s a striking likeness of a bloke I’ve never seen?”</p>
<p>“I’ll say it’s that, in any case. But I want to know if it’s well painted.”</p>
<p>Curse it, Sally, what’s it matter whether it is or not? I ve got other things to do. Who’s the artist, by the way?&#160;Anybody one’s ever heard of?”</p>
<p>Dunno. I’ve got the name here somewhere.” Sally rooted in his hip-pocket and produced a mass of dirty&#160;correspondence, its angles blunted by constant attrition.&#160;Some comic name like Buggle or Snagtooth—wait a bit—&#160;here it is. Crowder. Thomas Crowder. I knew it was&#160;something out of the way.”</p>
<p>“Singularly like Buggle or Snagtooth. All right, Sally. I’ll <sup>ma</sup>ke a martyr of myself. Lead me to it.”</p>
<p>“We’ll have another quick one. Here’s Warren. This is Lord Peter Wimsey. This is on nie.”</p>
<p>On me, corrected the photographer, a jaded young</p>
<p>man with a disillusioned manner. “Three large White Labels, please. Well, here’s all the best. Are you fit, Sally?&#160;Because we’d better make tracks. I’ve got to be up at&#160;Golders Green by two for the funeral.”</p>
<p>Mr. Crowder of Crichton’s appeared to have had the news broken to him already by Miss Twitterton, for he&#160;received the embassy in a spirit of gloomy acquiescence.</p>
<p>“The directors won’t like it,” he said, “but they’ve had to put up with such a lot that I suppose one irregularity&#160;more or less won’t give ’em apoplexy.” He had a small,&#160;anxious, yellow face like a monkey. Wimsey put him down&#160;as being in his late thirties. He noticed his fine, capable&#160;hands, one of which was disfigured by a strip of sticking-plaster.</p>
<p>“Damaged yourself?” said Wimsey pleasantly, as they made their way upstairs to the studio. “Mustn’t make a&#160;practice of that, what? An artist’s hands are his livelihood&#160;—except, of course, for Armless Wonders and people of&#160;that kind! Awkward job, painting with your toes.”</p>
<p>“Oh, it’s nothing much,” said Crowder, “but it’s best to keep the paint out of surface scratches. There’s such a&#160;thing as lead-poisoning. Well, here’s this dud portrait, such&#160;as it is. I don’t mind telling you that it didn’t please the&#160;sitter. In fact, he wouldn’t have it at any price.”</p>
<p>“Not flattering enough?” asked Hardy.</p>
<p>“As you say.” The painter pulled out a four by three canvas from its hiding-place behind a stack of poster&#160;cartoons, and heaved it up on to the easel.</p>
<p>“Oh!” said Hardy, a little surprised. Not that there was any reason for surprise as far as the painting itself was&#160;concerned. It was a straightforward handling enough; the&#160;skill and originality of the brushwork being of the kind&#160;that interests the painter without shocking the ignorant.&#160;“Oh!” said Hardy. “Was he really like that?”</p>
<p>He moved closer to the canvas, peering into it as he might have peered into the face of the living man, hoping&#160;to get something out of him. Under this microscopic&#160;scrutiny, the portrait, as is the way of portraits, dislimned,&#160;and became no more than a conglomeration of painted&#160;spots and streaks. He made the discovery that, to the&#160;painter’s eye, the human face is full of green and purple&#160;patches.</p>
<p>He moved back again, and altered the form of his question;</p>
<p>“So that’s what he was like, was he?”</p>
<p>He pulled out the photograph of Plant from his pocket,</p>
<p>and compared it with the portrait. The portrait seemed to* sneer at his surprise.</p>
<p>“Of course, they touch these things up at these fashionable photographers,*’ he said. “Anyway, that’s not my business. This thing will make a jolly good eye-catcher,&#160;don’t you think so, Wimsey? Wonder if they’d give us a&#160;two-column spread on the front page? Well, Warren,&#160;you’d better get down to it.”</p>
<p>The photographer, bleakly unmoved by artistic or journalistic considerations, took silent charge of the canvas, mentally resolving it into a question of pan-chromatic&#160;plates and coloured screens. Crowder gave him a hand in&#160;shifting the easel into a better light. Two or three people&#160;from other departments, passing through the studio on&#160;their lawful occasions, stopped, and lingered in the neighbourhood of the disturbance, as though it were a street&#160;accident. A melancholy, grey-haired man, temporary head&#160;of the studio, vice Coreggio Plant, deceased, took Crowder aside, with a muttered apology, to give him some&#160;instructions about adapting a whole quad to an eleven-inch treble. Hardy turned to Lord Peter&#160;“It’s damned ugly,” he said. “Is it good?”</p>
<p>“Brilliant,” said Wimsey. “You can go all out. Say what you like about it.”</p>
<p>“Oh, splendid! Could we discover one of our neglected British masters?”</p>
<p><sup>4</sup> Yes; why not? You’ll probably make the man the fashion and ruin him as an artist, but that’s his pigeon.”&#160;“But, I say—do you think it’s a good likeness? He’s&#160;made him look a most sinister sort of fellow. After all,&#160;Plant thought it was so bad he wouldn’t have it.”</p>
<p>‘ The more fool he. Ever heard of the portrait of a certain statesman that was so revealing of his inner emptiness that he hurriedly bought it up and hid it to prevent&#160;people like you from getting hold of it?”</p>
<p>Crowder came back.</p>
<p>1 say, said Wimsey, “whom does that picture belong</p>
<p>to? You? Or the heirs of the deceased, or what?”</p>
<p>I suppose it’s back on my hands,” said the painter.</p>
<p>Plant well, he more or less commissioned it, you see but-” &#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="font-style:italic;"><sup>J</sup></span></p>
<p>“How more or less?”</p>
<p>Well, he kept on hinting, don’t you know, that he would like me to do him, and, as he was my boss, I&#160;thought I’d better. No price actually mentioned. When he&#160;saw it, he didn’t like it, and told me to alter it.”</p>
<p>“But you didn’t.”</p>
<p>“Oh—well, I put it aside and said I’d see what I could do with it. I thought he’d perhaps forget about it.”</p>
<p>“I see. Then presumably it’s yours to dispose of.”</p>
<p>“I should think so. Why?”</p>
<p>“You have a very individual technique, haven’t you?” pursued Wimsey. “Do you exhibit much?”</p>
<p>“Here and there. I’ve never had a show in London.”</p>
<p>“I fancy I once saw a couple of small sea-scapes of yours somewhere. Manchester, was it? or Liverpool? I&#160;wasn’t sure of your name, but I recognised the technique&#160;immediately.”</p>
<p>“I dare say. I did send a few things to Manchester about two years ago.”</p>
<p>“Yes—I felt sure I couldn’t be mistaken. I want to buy the portrait. Here’s my card, by the way. I’m not a&#160;journalist; I collect things.”</p>
<p>Crowder looked from the card to Wimsey and from Wimsey to the card, a little reluctantly.</p>
<p>“If you want to exhibit it, of course,” said Lord Peter, “I should be delighted to leave it with you as long as you&#160;liked.”</p>
<p>“Oh, it’s not that,” said Crowder. “The fact is. I'm not altogether keen on this thing. I should like to—that is to&#160;say, it’s not really finished.”</p>
<p>“My dear man, it’s a bally masterpiece.”</p>
<p>“Oh, the painting’s all right. But it’s not altogether satisfactory as a likeness.”</p>
<p>“What the devil does the likeness matter? I don’t know what the late Plant looked like and I don’t care. As I look&#160;at the thing it’s a damn fine bit of brush-work, and if you&#160;tinker about with it, you’ll spoil it. You know that as well&#160;as I do. What’s biting you? It isn’t the price, is it? You&#160;know I shan’t boggle about that. I can afford my modest&#160;pleasures, even in these thin and piping times. You don’t&#160;want me to have it? Come now—what’s the real reason?”</p>
<p>“There’s no reason at all why you shouldn’t have it if you really want it, I suppose,” said the painter, still a little&#160;sullenly. “If it’s really the painting that interests you.”&#160;“What do you suppose it is? The notoriety? I can have&#160;all I want of <span style="font-style:italic;">that</span> commodity, you know, for the asking—&#160;or even without asking. Well, anyhow, think it over, and&#160;when you’ve decided, send me a line and name your&#160;price.”</p>
<p>Crowder nodded without speaking, and the photographer having by this time finished his job, the party took</p>
<p>their leave.</p>
<p>As they left the building, they became involved in the stream of Crichton’s staff going out to lunch. A girl, who&#160;seemed to have been loitering in a semi-intentional way in&#160;the lower hall, caught them as the lift descended.</p>
<p>“Are you the <span style="font-style:italic;">Evening Views</span> people? Did you get your picture all right?”</p>
<p>“Miss Twitterton?’ said Hardy interrogatively. “Yes, rather—thank you so much for giving us the tip. You’ll&#160;see it on the front page this evening.”</p>
<p>“Oh! that’s splendid! I’m frightfully thrilled. It has made an excitement here—all this business. Do they know anything yet about who murdered Mr. Plant? Or am I being&#160;horribly indiscreet?”</p>
<p>“We’re expecting news of an arrest any minute now,” said Hardy. “As a matter of fact, I shall have to buzz&#160;back to the office as fast as I can, to sit with one ear&#160;glued to the telephone. You will excuse me, won’t you?&#160;And, look here—will you let me come round another day,&#160;when things aren’t too busy, and take you out to&#160;lunch?”&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;9</p>
<p>“Of course. I should love to.” Miss Twitterton giggled. “I do so want to hear all about the murder cases.”</p>
<p>“Then here’s the man to tell you about them, Miss Twitterton,” said Hardy, with mischief in his eye. “Allow&#160;me to introduce Lord Peter Wimsey.”</p>
<p>Miss Twitterton offered her hand in an ecstasy of excitement which almost robbed her of speech.</p>
<p>“How do you do?” said Wimsey. “As this blighter is in such a hurry to get back to his gossip-shop, what do you&#160;say to having a spot of lunch with me?”</p>
<p>“Well, really-” began Miss Twitterton.</p>
<p>“He’s all right,” said Hardy; “he won’t lure you into any gilded dens of infamy. If you look at him, you will see he&#160;has a kind, innocent face.”</p>
<p>“I’m sure I never thought of such a thing,” said Miss Twitterton. “But you know—really—I’ve only got my old</p>
<p>things on. It’s no good wearing anything decent in this dusty old place.”</p>
<p>Oh, nonsense!” said Wimsey. “You couldn’t possibly look nicer. It isn’t the frock that matters—it’s the person&#160;who wears it. <span style="font-style:italic;">That's</span> all right, then. See you later, Sally!&#160;Taxi! Where shall we go? What time do you have to be</p>
<p>back, by the way?”</p>
<p>“Two o’clock,” said Miss Twitterton regretfully.</p>
<p>“Then we’ll make the Savoy do,” said Wimsey; “it’s reasonably handy.”</p>
<p>Miss Twitterton hopped into the waiting taxi with a little squeak of agitation.</p>
<p>“Did you see Mr. Crichton?” she said. “He went by just as we were talking. However, I dare say he doesn’t really&#160;know me by sight. I hope not—or he’ll think I’m getting&#160;too grand to need a salary.” She rooted in her hand-bag.&#160;“I’m sure my face is getting all shiny with excitement. What&#160;a silly taxi. It hasn’t got a mirror—and I’ve bust <span style="text-decoration:underline;">min</span>e.”</p>
<p>Wimsey solemnly produced a small looking-glass from his pocket.</p>
<p>“How wonderfully competent of you!” exclaimed Miss Twitterton. “I’m afraid. Lord Peter, you are used to&#160;taking girls about.”</p>
<p>“Moderately so,” said Wimsey. He did not think it necessary to mention that the last time he had used that&#160;mirror it had been to examine the back teeth of a murdered man.</p>
<p>“Of course,” said Miss Twitterton, “they had to say he was popular with his colleagues. Haven’t you noticed that&#160;murdered people are always well dressed and popular?”</p>
<p>“They have to be,” said Wimsey. “It makes it more mysterious and pathetic. Just as girls who disappear are&#160;always bright and home-loving and have no men&#160;friends.”</p>
<p>“Silly, isn’t it?” said Miss Twitterton, with her mouth full of roast duck and green peas. “I should think everybody was only too glad to get rid of Plant—nasty, rude&#160;creature. So mean, too, always taking credit for other&#160;people’s work. All those poor things in the studio, with all&#160;the spirit squashed out of them. I always say, Lord Peter,&#160;you can tell if a head of a department’s fitted for his job&#160;by noticing the atmosphere of the place as you go into it.&#160;Take the copy-room, now. We’re all as cheerful and&#160;friendly as you like, though I must say the language that&#160;goes on there is something awful, but these writing fellows&#160;are like that, and they don’t mean anything by it. But&#160;then, Mr. Ormerod is a real gentleman—that’s our copy-chief, you know—and he makes them all take an interest&#160;in the work, for all they grumble about the cheese-bills&#160;and the department-store bilge they have to turn out. But&#160;it’s quite different in the studio. A sort of dead-and-alive&#160;feeling about it, if you understand what I mean. We girls&#160;notice things like that more than some of the high-up</p>
<p>people think. Of course, I’m very sensitive to these feelings —almost psychic, I’ve been told.”</p>
<p>Lord Peter said there was nobody like a woman for sizing up character at a glance. Women, he thought, were&#160;remarkably intuitive.</p>
<p>“That’s a fact,” said Miss Twitterton. “I’ve often said, if I could have a few frank words with Mr. Crichton, I&#160;could tell him a thing or two. There are wheels within&#160;wheels beneath the surface of a place like this that these&#160;brass-hats have no idea of.”</p>
<p>Lord Peter said he felt sure of it.</p>
<p>“The way Mr. Plant treated people he thought were beneath him,” went on Miss Twitterton, “I’m sure it was&#160;enough to make your blood boil. I’m sure if Mr. Ormerod&#160;sent me with a message to him, I was glad to get out of the&#160;room again. Humiliating, it was, the way he’d speak to&#160;you. I don’t care if he’s dead or not; being dead doesn’t&#160;make a person’s past behaviour any better, Lord Peter. It&#160;wasn’t so much the rude things he said. There’s Mr.&#160;Birkett, for example; <span style="font-style:italic;">he's</span> rude enough, but nobody minds&#160;him. He’s just like a big, blundering puppy—rather a lamb,&#160;really. It was Mr. Plant’s nasty sneering way we all hated&#160;so. And he was always running people down.”</p>
<p>“How about this portrait?” asked Wimsey. “Was it like him at all?”</p>
<p>“It was a lot too like him,” said Miss Twitterton emphatically. “That’s why he hated it so. He didn’t like Crowder, either. But, of course, he knew he could paint,&#160;and he made him do it, because he thought he’d be getting&#160;a valuable thing cheap. And Crowder couldn’t very well&#160;refuse, or Plant would have got him sacked.”</p>
<p>I shouldn’t have thought that would have mattered much to a man of Crowder’s ability.”</p>
<p>“Poor Mr. Crowder! I don’t think he’s ever had much luck. Good artists don’t always seem able to sell their&#160;pictures. And I know he wanted to get married—&#160;otherwise he d never have taken up this commercial work.&#160;He s told me a good bit about himself. I don’t know</p>
<p>why—but I’m one of the people men seem to tell things to *</p>
<p>Lord Peter filled Miss Twitterton’s glass.</p>
<p>Oh, please! No, really! Not a drop more! I’m talking a lot too much as it is. I don’t know what Mr. Ormerod will&#160;say when I go in to take his letters. I shall be writing&#160;down all kinds of funny things. Ooh! I really must be&#160;getting back. Just look at the time!”</p>
<p>“It’s not really late. Have a black coffee—just as a corrective.” Wimsey smiled. “You haven’t been talking at&#160;ail too much. I’ve enjoyed your picture of office life enormously. You have a very vivid way of putting things, you&#160;know. I see now why Mr. Plant was not altogether a&#160;popular character.”</p>
<p>“Not in the office, anyway—whatever he may have been elsewhere,” said Miss Twitterton darkly.</p>
<p>“Oh?”</p>
<p>“Oh! he was a one,” said Miss Twitterton. “He certainly was a one. Some friends of mine met him one evening up&#160;in the West End, and they came back with some nice&#160;stories. It was quite a joke in the office—old Plant and his&#160;rosebuds, you know. Mr. Cowley—he’s <span style="font-style:italic;">the</span> Cowley, you&#160;know, who rides in the motor-cycle races—he always said&#160;he knew what to think of Mr. Plant and his motor-tours.&#160;That time Mr. Plant pretended he’d gone touring in&#160;Wales, Mr. Cowles was asking him about the roads, and&#160;he didn’t know a thing about them. Because Mr. Cowley&#160;really had been touring there, and he knew quite well Mr.&#160;Plant hadn’t been where he said he had; and, as a matter&#160;of fact, Mr. Cowley knew he’d been staying the whole&#160;time in a hotel at Aberystwyth, in very attractive company.”</p>
<p>Miss Twitterton finished her coffee and slapped the cup down defiantly.</p>
<p>“And now I really <span style="font-style:italic;">must</span> run away, or I shall be most dreadfully late. And thank you ever so much.”</p>
<p>“Hullo!” said Inspector Winterbottom, “you’ve brought that portrait, then?”</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Wimsey. “It’s a fine bit of work.” He gazed thoughtfully at the canvas. “Sit down, inspector; I want to&#160;tell you a story.”</p>
<p>“And I want to tell <span style="font-style:italic;">you</span> a story,” replied the inspector. “Let’s have yours first,” said Wimsey, with an air of&#160;flattering eagerness.</p>
<p>“No, no, my lord. You take precedence. Go ahead.”</p>
<p>He snuggled down with a chuckle into his arm-chair. “Well!” said Wimsey. “Mine’s a sort of a fairy-story.&#160;And, mind you, I haven’t verified it.”</p>
<p>“Go ahead, my lord, go ahead.”</p>
<p>“Once upon a time-” said Wimsey, sighing.</p>
<p>“That’s the good old-fashioned way to begin a fairy-story,” said Inspector Winterbottom.</p>
<p>“Once upon a time,” repeated Wimsey, “there was a</p>
<p>painter. He was a good painter, but the bad fairy of Financial Success had not been asked to his christening—</p>
<p>what?” &#160;&#160;&#160;I</p>
<p>“That’s often the way with painters,” agreed the inspector. &#160;&#160;&#160;.</p>
<p>“So he had to take up a job as a commercial artist,</p>
<p>because nobody would buy his pictures and, like so many people in fairy-tales, he wanted to marry a goose-girl.”&#160;“There’s many people want to do the same,” said the&#160;inspector.</p>
<p>“The head of his department,” went on Wimsey, “was a</p>
<p>man with a mean, sneering soul. He wasn’t even really</p>
<p>good at his job, but he had been pushed into authority</p>
<p>during the war, when better men went to the Front. Mind</p>
<p>you, I’m rather sorry for the man. He suffered from an</p>
<p>inferiority complex”—the inspector snorted—“and he</p>
<p>thought the only way to keep his end up was to keep other</p>
<p>people’s end down. So he became a little tin tyrant and a</p>
<p>bully. He took all the credit for the work of the men</p>
<p>under his charge and he sneered and harassed them till</p>
<p>they got inferiority complexes even worse than his own.”</p>
<p>“Tve known that sort,” said the inspector, “and the</p>
<p>marvel to me is how they get away with it.”</p>
<p>“Just so,” said Wimsey. “Well, I dare say this man</p>
<p>would have gone on getting away with it all right, if he</p>
<p>hadn’t thought of getting this painter to paint his portrait.” &#160;&#160;&#160;-&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I</p>
<p>Damn silly thing to do,” said the inspector. “It was only making the painter-fellow conceited with himself.”&#160;*^<sup>rue</sup>* ®<sup>u</sup>t» you see, this tin tyrant person had a fascinating female in tow, and he wanted the portrait for the&#160;lady. He thought that, by making the painter do it, he&#160;would get a good portrait at starvation price. But unhappily he d forgotten that, however much an artist will put&#160;up with in the ordinary way, he is bound to be sincere</p>
<p>with his art. That’s the one thing a genuine artist won’t muck about with.”</p>
<p>I dare say, said the inspector. “I don’t know much about artists.”</p>
<p>Well, you can take it from me. So the painter painted</p>
<p>the portrait as he saw it, and he put the man’s whole</p>
<p>creeping, sneering, paltry soul on the canvas for everybody to see.” &#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="font-style:italic;"><sup>J</sup></span></p>
<p>Inspector Winterbottom stared at the portrait, and the portrait sneered back at <span style="text-decoration:underline;">him</span></p>
<p>“It’s not what you’d call a flattering picture, certainly,” he admitted.</p>
<p>“Now, when a painter paints a portrait of anybody,” went on Wimsey, “that person’s face is never the same to&#160;him again. It’s like—what shall I say? Well, it’s like the&#160;way a gunner, say, looks at a landscape where he happens&#160;to be posted. He doesn’t see it as a landscape. He doesn’t&#160;see it as a thing of magic beauty, full of sweeping lines&#160;and lovely colour. He sees it as so much cover, so many&#160;land-marks to aim by, so many gun-emplacements. And&#160;when the war is over and he goes back to it, he will still see&#160;it as cover and landmarks and gun-emplacements. It isn’t&#160;a landscape any more. It’s a war map.”</p>
<p>“I know that,” said Inspector Winterbottom. “I was a gunner myself.”</p>
<p>“A painter gets just the same feeling of deadly familiarity with every line of a face he’s once painted,” pursued Wimsey. “And, if it’s a face he hates, he hates it with a&#160;new and more irritable hatred. It’s like a defective barrel-organ, everlastingly grinding out the same old maddening&#160;tune, and making the same damned awful wrong note&#160;every time the barrel goes round.”</p>
<p>“Lord! how you can talk!” ejaculated the inspector.</p>
<p>“That was the way the painter felt about this man’s hateful face. All day and every day he had to see it. He&#160;couldn’t get away because he was tied to his job, you&#160;see.”</p>
<p>“He ought to have cut loose,” said the inspector. “It’s no good going on like that, trying to work with uncongenial&#160;people.”</p>
<p>“Well, anyway, he said to himself, he could escape for a bit during his holidays. There was a beautiful little quiet&#160;spot he knew on the West Coast, where nobody ever&#160;came. He’d been there before and painted it. Oh! by the&#160;way, that reminds me—I’ve got another picture to show&#160;you.”</p>
<p>He went to a bureau and extracted a small panel in oils from a drawer.</p>
<p>“I saw that two years ago at a show in Manchester, and I happened to remember the name of the dealer who&#160;bought it.”</p>
<p>Inspector Winterbottom gaped at the panel.</p>
<p>“But that’s East Felpham!” he exclaimed.</p>
<p>“Yes. It’s only signed T.C., but the technique is rather unmistakable, don’t you think?”</p>
<p>The inspector knew little about technique, but initials he</p>
<p>understood. He looked from the portrait to the panel and back at Lord Peter.</p>
<p>“The painter-”</p>
<p>“Crowder?”</p>
<p>“If it’s all the same to you, I’d rather go on calling him the painter. He packed up his traps on his push-bike&#160;carrier, and took his tormented nerves down to this beloved and secret spot for a quiet week-end. He stayed at a&#160;quiet little hotel in the neighbourhood, and each morning&#160;he cycled off to this lovely little beach to bathe. He never&#160;told anybody at the hotel where he went, because it was&#160;<span style="font-style:italic;">his</span> place, and he didn’t want other people to find it&#160;out.”</p>
<p>Inspector Winterbottom set the panel down on the table, and helped himself to whisky.</p>
<p>“One morning—it happened to be the Monday morning”—Wimsey’s voice became slower and more reluctant— “he went down as usual. The tide was not yet fully in, but&#160;he ran out over the rocks to where he knew there was a&#160;deep bathing-pool. He plunged in and swam about, and let&#160;the small noise of his jangling troubles be swallowed up in&#160;the innumerable laughter of the sea.”</p>
<p>“Eh?”</p>
<p>“<span style="font-style:italic;">KVfiq.ro)v avqpidfiov yeKacrpa</span>—quotation from the classics. Some people say it means the dimpled surface of the waves&#160;in the sunlight—but how could Prometheus, bound upon&#160;his rock, have seen it? Surely is was the chuckle of the&#160;incoming tide among the stones that came up to his ears&#160;on the lonely peak where the vulture fretted at his heart.&#160;I remember arguing about it with old Philpotts in class, and&#160;getting rapped over the knuckles for contradicting him. I&#160;didn’t know at the time that he was engaged in producing a&#160;translation on his own account, or doubtless I should have&#160;contradicted him more rudely and been told to take my&#160;trousers down. Dear old Philpotts!”</p>
<p>‘ I don’t kno wanything about that,” said the inspector.</p>
<p>I beg your pardon. Shocking way I have of wandering. The painter well! he swam round the end of the rocks,&#160;for the tide was nearly in by that time; and, as he came&#160;up from the sea, he saw a man standing on the beach—&#160;that beloved beach, remember, which he thought was his&#160;own sacred haven of peace. He came wading towards it,&#160;cursing the Bank Holiday rabble who must needs swarm&#160;about everywhere with their cigarette-packets and their&#160;kodaks and their gramophones—and then he saw that it&#160;was a face he knew. He knew every hated line in it, on</p>
<p>that clear sunny morning. And, early as it was, the heat was coming up over the sea like a haze.”</p>
<p>“It was a hot week-end,” said the Inspector.</p>
<p>“And then the man hailed him, in his smug, mincing voice. ‘Hullo!’ he said, ‘you here? How did you find my&#160;little bathing-place?’ And that was too much for the painter. He felt as if his last sanctuary had been invaded. He&#160;leapt at the lean throat—it’s rather a stringy one, you may&#160;notice, with a prominent Adam’s apple—an irritating&#160;throat. The water chuckled round their feet as they&#160;swayed to and fro. He felt his thumbs sink into the flesh&#160;he had painted. He saw, and laughed to see, the hateful&#160;familiarity of the features change and swell into an unrecognisable purple. He watched the sunken eyes bulge out&#160;and the thin mouth distort itself as the blackened tongue&#160;thrust through it—I am not unnerving you, I hope?”</p>
<p>The inspector laughed.</p>
<p>“Not a bit. It’s wonderful, the way you describe things. You ought to write a book.”</p>
<p>“I sing but as the throstle sings,</p>
<p>Amid the branches dwelling,”</p>
<p>replied his lordship negligently, and went on without further comment.</p>
<p>“The painter throttled him. He flung him back on the sand. He looked at him, and his heart crowed within him.&#160;He stretched' out his hand, and found a broken bottle,&#160;with a good jagged edge. He went to work with a will,&#160;stamping and tearing away every trace of the face he&#160;knew and loathed. He blotted it out and destroyed it&#160;utterly.</p>
<p>“He sat beside the thing he had made. He began to be frightened. They had staggered back beyond the edge of&#160;the water, and there were the marks of his feet on the&#160;sand. He had blood on his face and on his bathing-suit,&#160;and he had cut his hand with the bottle. But the blessed&#160;sea was still coming in. He watched it pass over the&#160;blood-stains and the footprints and wipe the story of his&#160;madness away. He remembered that this man had gone&#160;from his place, leaving no address behind him. He went&#160;back, step by step, into the water, and as it came up&#160;to his breast, he saw the red stains smoke away like a&#160;faint mist in the brown-blueness of the tide. He went&#160;wading and swimming and plunging his face and arms&#160;deep in the water, looking back from time to time to see</p>
<p>what he had left behind him. I think that when he got back to the point and drew himself out, clean and cool,&#160;upon the rocks, he remembered that he ought to have&#160;taken the body back with him and let the tide carry it&#160;away, but it was too late. He was clean, and he could not&#160;bear to go back for the thing. Besides, he was late, and&#160;they would wonder at the hotel if he was not back in time&#160;for breakfast. He ran lightly over the bare rocks and the&#160;grass that showed no footprint. He dressed himself, taking&#160;care to leave no trace of his presence. He took the car,&#160;which would have told a story. He put his bicycle in the&#160;back seat, under the rugs, and he went—but you know as&#160;well as I do where he went.”</p>
<p>Lord Peter got up with an impatient movement, and went over to the picture, rubbing his thumb meditatively&#160;over the texture of the painting.</p>
<p>“You may say, if he hated the face so much, why didn’t he destroy the picture? He couldn’t. It was the best <span style="text-decoration:underline;">thin</span>g&#160;he’d ever done. He took a hundred guineas for it. It&#160;was cheap at a hundred guineas. But then—I <span style="text-decoration:underline;">think</span> he was&#160;afraid to refuse me. My name is rather well known. It&#160;was a sort of blackmail, I suppose. But I wanted that picture.”</p>
<p>Inspector Winterbottom laughed again.</p>
<p>“Did you take any steps, my lord, to find out if Crowder has really been staying at East Felpham?”</p>
<p>“No.” Wimsey swung round abruptly. “I have taken no steps at all. That’s your business. I have told you the&#160;story, and, on my soul, I’d rather have stood by and said&#160;nothing.”</p>
<p>“You needn’t worry.” The inspector laughed for the third time. “It’s a good story, my lord, and you told it&#160;well. But you’re right when you say it’s a fairy-story.&#160;We’ve found this Italian fellow—Franceso, he called himself, and he’s the man all right.”</p>
<p>“How do you know? Has he confessed?”</p>
<p>“Practically. He’s dead. Killed himself. He left a letter to the woman, begging her forgiveness, and saying that&#160;when he saw her with Plant he felt murder come into his&#160;heart. I have revenged myself,’ he says, ‘on him who&#160;dared to love you.’ I suppose he got the wind up when he&#160;saw we were after him—I wish these newspapers wouldn’t&#160;be always putting these criminals on their guard—so he&#160;did away with himself to cheat the gallows. I may say it’s&#160;been a disappointment to me.”</p>
<p>“It must have been,” said Wimsey. “Very unsatisfacto-</p>
<p>ry, of course. But I’m glad my story turned out to be only a fairy-tale after all. You’re not going?”</p>
<p>“Got to get back to my duty,” said the inspector, heaving himself to his feet. “Very pleased to have met&#160;you, my lord. And I mean what I say—you ought to take&#160;to literature.”</p>
<p>Wimsey remained after he had gone, still looking at the portrait.</p>
<p>“ ‘What is Truth?’ said jesting Pilate. No wonder, since it is so completely unbelievable.... I could prove it ... if&#160;I liked . . . but the man had a villainous face, and there&#160;are few good painters in the world.”</p>
<p>THE ADVENTUROUS EXPLOIT OF</p>
</body>
</html>