<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head><meta name="charset" content="UTF-8"/><title></title><link rel="stylesheet" href="main.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><h1><a id="bookmark0"></a>THE PRACTICAL JOKER</h1>
<p>The <span style="font-style:italic;">Zambesi</span>, they said, was expected to dock at six in the morning. Mrs. Ruyslaender booked a bedroom at the&#160;Magnificat, with despair in her heart. A bare nine hours&#160;and she would be greeting her husband. After that would&#160;begin the sickening period of waiting—it might be days, it&#160;might be weeks, possibly even months—for the inevitable&#160;discovery.</p>
<p>The reception-clerk twirled the register towards her. Mechanically, as she signed it, she glanced at the preceding entry:</p>
<p>“Lord Peter Wimsey and valet—London—Suite 24.”</p>
<p>Mrs. Ruyslaender’s heart seemed to stop for a second. Was it possible that, even now, God had left a loophole?&#160;She expected little from Him—all her life He had shown&#160;Himself a sufficiently stern creditor. It was fantastic to&#160;base the frailest hope on this signature of a man she had&#160;never even seen.</p>
<p>Yet the name remained in her mind while she dined in her own room. She dismissed her maid presently, and sat&#160;for a long time looking at her own haggard reflection in&#160;the mirror. Twice she rose and went to the door—then&#160;tuned back, calling herself a fool. The third time she&#160;turned the handle quickly and hurried down the corridor,&#160;without giving herself time to think.</p>
<p>A large golden arrow at the corner directed her to Suite 24. It was 11 o’clock, and nobody was within view. Mrs.&#160;Ruyslaender gave a sharp knock on Lord Peter Wimsey’s&#160;door and stood back, waiting, with the sort of desperate&#160;relief one experiences after hearing a dangerous' letter&#160;thump the bottom of the pillar-box. Whatever the adventure, she was committed to it.</p>
<p>The manservant was of the imperturbable sort. He neither invited nor rejected, but stood respectfully upon&#160;the threshold.</p>
<p>“Lord Peter Wimsey?” murmured Mrs. Ruyslaender. “Yes, madam.”</p>
<p>“Could I speak to him for a moment?”</p>
<p>“His lordship has just retired, madam. If you will step in, I will enquire.”</p>
<p>Mrs. Ruyslaender following him into one of those palatial sitting-rooms which the Magnifical provides for the wealthy pilgrim.</p>
<p>“Will you take a seat, madam?”</p>
<p>The man stepped noiselessly to the bedroom door and passed in, shutting it behind him. The lock, however,&#160;failed to catch, and Mrs. Ruyslaender caught the conversation.</p>
<p>“Pardon me, my lord, a lady has called. She mentioned no appointment, so I considered it better to acquaint your&#160;lordship.”</p>
<p>“Excellent discretion,” said a voice. It had a slow, sarcastic intonation, which brought a painful flush to Mrs.&#160;Ruyslaender’s cheek. “I never make appointments. Do I&#160;know the lady?”</p>
<p>“No, my lord. But—hem—I know her by sight, my lord. It is Mrs. Ruyslaender.”</p>
<p>“Oh, the diamond merchant’s wife. Well, find out tactfully what it’s all about, and, unless it’s urgent, ask her to call to-morrow.”</p>
<p>The valet’s next remark was inaudible, but the reply was:</p>
<p>“Don’t be coarse, Bunter.”</p>
<p>The valet returned.</p>
<p>“His lordship desires me to ask you, madam, in what way he can be of service to you.”</p>
<p>“Will you say to him that I have heard of him in connection with the Attenbury diamond case, and am&#160;anxious to ask his advice.”</p>
<p>“Certainly, madam. May I suggest that, as his lordship is greatly fatigued, he would be better able to assist you&#160;after he has slept.”</p>
<p>“If to-morrow would have done, I would not have thought of disturbing him to-night. Tell him, I am aware</p>
<p>of the trouble I am giving-”</p>
<p>“Excuse me one moment, madam.” „</p>
<p>This time the door shut properly. After a short interval Bunter returned to say, “His lordship will be with you&#160;immediately, madam,” and to place a decanter of wine&#160;and a box of Sobranies beside her.</p>
<p>Mrs. Ruyslaender lit a cigarette, but had barely sampled</p>
<p>its flavour when she was aware of a soft step beside her. Looking round, she perceived a young man, attired in a&#160;mauve dressing-gown of great splendour, from beneath&#160;the hem of which peeped coyly a pair of primrose silk</p>
<p>pyjamas.</p>
<p>“You must think it very strange of me, thrusting myself on you at this hour,” she said, with a nervous laugh.</p>
<p>Lord Peter put his head on one side.</p>
<p>“Don’t know the answer to that,” he said. “If I say, ‘Not at all,* it sounds abandoned. If I say, ‘Yes, very,* it’s&#160;rude. Supposin’ we give it a miss, what? and you tell me&#160;what I can do for you.”</p>
<p>Mrs. Ruyslaender hesitated. Lord Peter was not what she had expected. She noted the sleek, straw-coloured hair,&#160;brushed flat back from a rather sloping forehead, the&#160;ugly, lean, arched nose, and the faintly foolish smile, and&#160;her heart sank within her.</p>
<p>“I—I’m afraid it’s ridiculous of me to suppose you can help me,” she began.</p>
<p>“Always my unfortunate appearance,” moaned Lord Peter, with such alarming acumen as to double her discomfort. “Would it invite confidence more, d’you suppose,&#160;if I dyed my hair black an* grew a Newgate fringe? It’s&#160;very tryin’, you can’t think, always to look as if one’s&#160;name was Algy.”</p>
<p>“I only meant,” said Mrs. Ruyslaender, “that I don’t think <span style="font-style:italic;">anybody</span> could possibly help. But I saw your name in&#160;the hotel book, and it seemed just a chance.”</p>
<p>Lord Peter filled the glasses and sat down.</p>
<p>“Carry on,” he said cheerfully; “it sounds interestin’.” Mrs. Ruyslaender took the plunge.</p>
<p>“My husband,” she explained, “is Henry Ruyslaender, the diamond merchant. We came over from Kimberley&#160;ten years ago, and settled in England. He spends several&#160;months in Africa every year on business, and I am expecting him back on the <span style="font-style:italic;">Zambesi</span> to-morrow morning. Now,&#160;this is the trouble. Last year he gave me a magnificent</p>
<p>diamond necklace of a hundred and fifteen stones-”</p>
<p>“The Light of Africa—I know,” said Wimsey.</p>
<p>She looked a little surprised, but assented. “The necklace has been stolen from me, and I can’t hope to conceal the loss from him. No duplicate would deceive him for an&#160;instant.”</p>
<p>She paused, and Lord Peter prompted gently:</p>
<p>“You have come to me, I presume, because it is not to be a police matter. Will you tell me quite frankly why?”</p>
<p>“The police would be useless. I know who took it” “Yes?”</p>
<p>“There is a man we both know slightly—a man called Paul Melville.”</p>
<p>Lord Peter’s eyes narrowed. “M’m, yes, I fancy I’ve seen him about the clubs. New Army, but transferred&#160;himself into the Regulars. Dark. Showy. Bit of an am-pelopsis, what?”</p>
<p>“Ampelopsis?”</p>
<p>“Surburban plant that climbs by suction. <span style="font-style:italic;">You</span> know— first year, tender little shoots—second year, fine show—&#160;next year, all over the shop. Now tell me I am rude.”</p>
<p>Mrs. Ruyslaender giggled. “Now you mention it, he is <span style="font-style:italic;">exactly</span> like an ampelopsis. What a relief to be able to&#160;think of him as that. — Well, he is some sort of distant&#160;relation of my husband’s. He called one evening when I&#160;was alone. We talked about jewels, and I brought down&#160;my jewel-box and showed him the Light of Africa. He&#160;knows a good deal about stones. I was in and out of the&#160;room two or three times, but didn’t think to lock up the&#160;box. After he left, I was putting the things away, and I&#160;opened the jeweller’s case the diamonds were in—and they&#160;had gone!”</p>
<p>“H’m—pretty barefaced. Look here, Mrs. Ruyslaender, you agree he’s an ampelopsis, but you won’t call in the&#160;police. Honestly, now—forgive me; you’re askin’ my advice, you know—is he worth botherin’ about?”</p>
<p>“It’s not that,” said the woman, in a low tone. “Oh, no! But he took something else as well. He took—a portrait—&#160;a small painting set with diamonds.”</p>
<p>“Oh!”</p>
<p>“Yes. It was in a secret drawer in the jewel-box. I can’t imagine how he knew it was there, but the box was an old&#160;casket, belonging to my husband’s family, and I fancy he&#160;must have known about the drawer and—well, thought&#160;that investigation might prove profitable. Anyway, the&#160;evening the diamonds went the portrait went too, and he&#160;knows I daren’t try to get the necklace back because&#160;they’d both be found together.”</p>
<p>“Was there something more than just the portrait, then? A portrait in itself isn’t necessarily hopeless of explanation. It was given you to take care of, say.”</p>
<p>“The names were on it—and—and an inscription which nothing, <span style="font-style:italic;">nothing</span> could ever explain away. A—a passage&#160;from Petronius.”</p>
<p>“Oh, dear!” said Lord Peter, “dear me, yes. Rather a</p>
<p>lively author.”</p>
<p>“I was married very young,” said Mrs. Ruyslaender, “and my husband and I have never got on well. Then one&#160;year, when he was in Africa, it all happened. We were&#160;wonderful—and shameless. It came to an end. I was&#160;bitter. I wish I had not been. He left me, you see, and 1&#160;couldn’t forgive it. I prayed day and night for revenge.&#160;Only now—I don’t want it to be through me!”</p>
<p>“Wait a moment,” said Wimsey, “you mean that, if the diamonds are found and the portrait is found too, all this&#160;story is bound to come out.”</p>
<p>“My husband would get a divorce. He would never forgive me—or him. It is not so much that I mind paying</p>
<p>the price myself, but-”</p>
<p>She clenched her hands.</p>
<p>“I have cursed him again and again, and the clever girl who married him. She played her cards so well. This would&#160;ruin them both.”</p>
<p>“But if <span style="font-style:italic;">you</span> were the instrument of vengeance,” said Wimsey gently, “you would hate yourself. And it would be&#160;terrible to you because he would hate you. A woman like&#160;you couldn’t stoop to get your own back. I see that. If God&#160;makes a thunderbolt, how awful and satisfying—if you&#160;help to make a beastly row, what a rotten business it&#160;would be.”</p>
<p>“You seem to understand,” said Mrs. Ruyslaender. “How unusual.”</p>
<p>“I understand perfectly. Though let me tell you,” said Wimsey, with a wry little twist of the lips, “that it’s sheer&#160;foolishness for a woman to have a sense of honour in such&#160;matters. It only gives her excruciating pain, and nobody&#160;expects it, anyway. Look here, don’t let’s get all worked&#160;up. You certainly shan’t have your vengeance thrust on&#160;you by an ampelopsis. Why should you? Nasty fellow.&#160;Well have him up—root, branch, and little suckers. Don’t&#160;worry. Let’s see. My business here will only take a day.&#160;Then I’ve got to get to know Melville—say a week. Then&#160;I’ve got to get the doings—say another week, provided he&#160;hasn’t sold them yet, which isn’t likely. Can you hold your&#160;husband off ’em for a fortnight, d’you think?”</p>
<p>“Oh, yes. I’ll say they’re in the country, or being cleaned,</p>
<p>or something. But do you really think you can-?”</p>
<p>“I’ll have a jolly good try, anyhow, Mrs. Ruyslaender. Is the fellow hard up, to start stealing diamonds?”</p>
<p>“I fancy he has got into debt over horses lately. And possibly poker.”</p>
<p>“Oh! Poker player, is he? That makes an excellent excuse for gettin’ to know him. Well, cheer up—we’ll get&#160;the goods, even if we have to buy ’em. But we won’t, if&#160;we can help it. Bunter!”</p>
<p>“My lord?” The valet appeared from the inner room. “Just go an’ give the ‘All Clear,’ will you?”</p>
<p>Mr. Bunter accordingly stepped into the passage, and, having seen an old gentleman safely away to the bathroom&#160;and a young lady in a pink kimono pop her head out of an&#160;adjacent door and hurriedly pop it back on beholding him,&#160;blew his nose with a loud, trumpeting sound.</p>
<p>“Good night,” said Mrs. Ruyslaender, “and thank you.” She slipped back to her room unobserved.</p>
<p>“Whatever has induced you, my dear boy,” said Colonel Marchbanks, “to take up with that very objectionable&#160;fellow Melville?”</p>
<p>“Diamonds,” said Lord Peter. “Do you find him so, really?”</p>
<p>“Perfectly dreadful man,” said the Hon. Frederick Ar-buthnot. “Hearts. What did you want to go and get him a room here for? This used to be a quite decent club.”</p>
<p>‘Two clubs?” said Sir Impey Biggs, who had been ordering a whisky, and had only caught the last word.</p>
<p>“No, no, one heart.”</p>
<p>“I beg your pardon. Well, partner, how about spades? Perfectly good suit.”</p>
<p>“Pass,” said the Colonel. “I don’t know what the Army’s coming to nowadays.”</p>
<p>“No trumps,” said Wimsey. “It’s all right, children. Trust your Uncle Pete. Come on, Freddy, how many of&#160;those hearts are you going to shout for?”</p>
<p>“None, the Colonel havin’ let me down so ’orrid,” said the Hon. Freddy.</p>
<p>“Cautious blighter. All content? Righty-ho! Bring out your dead, partner. Oh, very pretty indeed. We’ll make it&#160;a slam this time. I’m rather glad to hear that expression of&#160;opinion from you, Colonel, because I particularly want&#160;you and Biggy to hang on this evening and take a hand&#160;with Melville and me.”</p>
<p>“What happens to me?” enquired the Hon. Freddy.</p>
<p>“You have an engagement to go home early, dear old thing. I’ve specially invited friend Melville to meet the&#160;redoubtable Colonel Marchbanks and our greatest crimi-</p>
<p>nal lawyer. Which hand am I supposed to be playin’-this from? Oh, yes. Come on, Colonel—you’ve got to hike that&#160;old king out some time, why not now?”</p>
<p>“It’s a plot.” said Mr. Arbuthnot, with an exaggerated expression of mystery. “Carry on, don’t mind me.”</p>
<p>“I take it you have your ov/n reasons for cultivating the man,” said Sir Impey.</p>
<p>“The rest are mine, I fancy. Well, yes, I have. You and the Colonel would really do me a favour by letting&#160;Melville cut in to-night.”</p>
<p>“If you wish it,” growled the Colonel, “but I hope the impudent young beggar won’t presume on the acquaintance.”</p>
<p>“I’ll see to that,” said his lordship. “Your cards, Freddy. Who had the ace of hearts? Oh! I had it myself, of course.&#160;Our honours. . .. Hullo! Evenin’, Melville.”</p>
<p>The ampelopsis was rather a good-looking creature in his own way. Tall and bronzed, with a fine row of very&#160;persuasive teeth. He greeted Wimsey and Arbuthnot heartily, the Colonel with a shade too much familiarity, and&#160;expressed himself delighted to be introduced to Sir Impey&#160;Biggs.</p>
<p>“You’re just in time to hold Freddy’s hand,” said Wimsey; “he’s got a date. Not his little paddy-paw, I don’t mean—but the dam’ rotten hand he generally gets dealt&#160;him. Joke.”</p>
<p>“Oh, well,” said the obedient Freddy, rising, “I s’pose I’d better make a noise like a hoop and roll away. Night,&#160;night, everybody.”</p>
<p>Melville took his place, and the game continued with varying fortunes for two hours, at the end of which time&#160;Colonel M archbanks, who had suffered much under his&#160;partner’s eloquent theory of the game, was beginning to&#160;wilt visibly.</p>
<p>Wimsey yawned.</p>
<p>“Gettin’ a bit bored. Colonel? Wish they’d invent somethin’ to liven this game up a bit.”</p>
<p>“Oh, Bridge is a one-horse show, anyway,” said Melville. “Why not have a little flutter at poker. Colonel? Do you all the good in the world. What d’you say, Biggs?”&#160;Sir Impey turned on Wimsey a thoughtful eye, accustomed to the sizing-up of witnesses. Then he replied:</p>
<p>“I’m quite willing, if the others are.”.</p>
<p>“Damn good idea,” said Lord Peter. “Come now, Colonel, be a sport. You’ll find the chips in that drawer, I</p>
<p>think. I always lose money at poker, but what’s the odds so long as you’re happy. Let’s have a new pack.”</p>
<p>“Any limit?”</p>
<p>“What do <span style="font-style:italic;">you</span> say, Colonel?”</p>
<p>The Colonel proposed a twenty-shilling limit. Melville, with a grimace, amended this to one-tenth of the pool. The&#160;amendment was carried and the cards cut, the deal falling&#160;to the Colonel.</p>
<p>Contrary to his own prophecy, Wimsey began by winning considerably, and grew so garrulously imbecile in the process that even the experienced Melville began to wonder whether this indescribable fatuity was the cloak of&#160;ignorance or the mask of the hardened poker-player.&#160;Soon, however, he was reassured. The luck came over to&#160;his side, and he found himself winning hands down, steadily from Sir Impey and the Colonel, who played cautiously&#160;and took little risk—heavily from Wimsey, who appeared&#160;reckless and slightly drunk, and was staking foolishly on&#160;quite impossible cards.</p>
<p>“I never knew such luck as yours, Melville,” said Sir Impey, when that young man had scooped in the proceeds&#160;from a handsome straight-flush.</p>
<p>“My turn to-night, yours to-morrow,” said Melville, pushing the cards across to Biggs, whose deal it was.</p>
<p>Colonel Marchbanks required one card. Wimsey laughed vacantly and demanded an entirely fresh hand;&#160;Biggs asked for three; and Melville, after a pause for&#160;consideration, took one.</p>
<p>It seemed as though everybody had something respectable this time—though Wimsey was not to be depended upon, frequently going the limit upon a pair of jacks in&#160;order, as he expressed it, to keep the pot a-boiling. He&#160;became peculiarly obstinate now, throwing his chips in&#160;with a flushed face, in spite of Melville’s confident air.</p>
<p>The Colonel got out, and after a short time Biggs followed his example. Melville held on till the pool mounted to something under a hundred pounds, when Wimsey&#160;suddenly turned restive and demanded to see him.</p>
<p>“Four kings,” said Melville.</p>
<p>“Blast you!” said Lord Peter, laying down four queens. “No holdin* this feller to-night, is there. Here, take the&#160;ruddy cards, Melville, and give somebody else a look in,&#160;will you.”</p>
<p>He shuffled them as he spoke, and handed them over. Melville dealt, satisfied the demands of the other three&#160;players, and was in the act of taking three new cards for</p>
<p>himself, when Wimsey gave a sudden exclamation, and shot a swift hand across the table.</p>
<p>“Hullo! Melville,” he said, in a chill tone which bore no resemblance to his ordinary speech, “What exactly does&#160;this mean?”</p>
<p>He lifted Melville’s left arm clear of the table and, with a sharp gesture, shook it. From the sleeve something&#160;fluttered to the table and glided away to the floor. Colonel&#160;Marchbanks picked it up, and in a dreadful silence laid&#160;the joker on the table.</p>
<p>“Good God!” said Sir Impey.</p>
<p>“You young blackguard!” gasped the Colonel, recovering speech.</p>
<p>“What the hell do you mean by this?” gasped Melville, with a face like chalk. “How dare you! This is a trick—a</p>
<p>plant-” A horrible fury gripped him. “You dare to say</p>
<p>that I have been cheating. You liar! You filthy sharper. You put it there. I tell you, gentlemen,” he cried, looking&#160;desperately round the table, “he must have put it&#160;there.”</p>
<p>“Come, come,” said Colonel Marchbanks, “no good carryin’ on that way, Melville. Dear me, no good at all.&#160;Only makes matters worse. We all saw it, you know.&#160;Dear, dear, I don’t know what the Army’s coming to.”</p>
<p>“Do you mean you believe it?” shrieked Melville. “For God’s sake, Wimsey, is this a joke or what? Biggs—you’ve&#160;got a head on your shoulders—are you going to believe&#160;this half-drunk fool and this doddering old idiot who&#160;ought to be in his grave?”</p>
<p>“That language won’t do you any good, Melville,” said Sir Impey. “I’m afraid we all saw it clearly enough.”</p>
<p>“I’ve been suspectin’ this some time, y’ know,” said Wimsey. “That’s why I asked you two to stay to-night. We</p>
<p>don’t want to make a public row, but-”</p>
<p>“Gentlemen,” said Melville more soberly, “I swear to you that I am absolutely innocent of this ghastly thing.&#160;Can’t you believe me?”</p>
<p>“I can believe the evidence of my own eyes, sir,” said the colonel, with some heat.</p>
<p>“For the good of the club,” said Wimsey, “this couldn’t go on, but—also for the good of the club—I think we&#160;should all prefer the matter to be quietly arranged. In the&#160;face of what Sir Impey and the Colonel can witness,&#160;Melville, I’m afraid your protestations are not likely to be&#160;credited.”</p>
<p>Melville looked from the soldier’s face to that of the great criminal lawyer.</p>
<p>“I don’t know what your game is,” he said sullenly to Wimsey, “but I can see you’ve laid a trap and pulled it off&#160;all right.”</p>
<p>“I think, gentlemen,” said Wimsey, “that, if I might have a word in private with Melville in his own room, I&#160;could get the thing settled satisfactorily, without undue&#160;fuss.”</p>
<p>“He’ll have to resign his commission,” growled the Colonel.</p>
<p>“I’ll put it to him in that light,” said Peter. “May we go to your room for a minute, Melville?”</p>
<p>With a lowering brow, the young soldier led the way. Once alone with Wimsey, he turned furiously on him.</p>
<p>“What do you want? What do you mean by making this monstrous charge? I’ll take action for libel!”</p>
<p>“Do,” said Wimsey coolly, “if you think anybody is likely to believe your story.”</p>
<p>He lit a cigarette, and smiled lazily at the angry young man.</p>
<p>“Well, what’s the meaning of it, anyway?”</p>
<p>“The meaning,” said Wimsey, “is simply that you, an officer and a member of this club, have been caught&#160;red-handed cheating at cards while playing for money, the&#160;witnesses being Sir Impey Biggs, Colonel Marchbanks, and&#160;myself. Now, I suggest to you, Captain Melville, that your&#160;best plan is to let me take charge of Mrs. Ruyslaender’s&#160;diamond necklace and portrait, and then just to trickle&#160;away quiet-like from these halls of dazzlin’ light—without&#160;any questions asked.”</p>
<p>Melville leapt to his feet.</p>
<p>“My God!” he cried. “I can see it now. It’s blackmail.”</p>
<p>“You may certainly call it blackmail, and theft too,” said Lord Peter, with a shrug. “But why use ugly names? I&#160;hold five aces, you see. Better chuck in your hand.”&#160;“Suppose I say I never heard of thediamonds?”</p>
<p>“It’s a bit late now, isn’t it?” said Wimsey affably. “But, in that case, I’m beastly sorry and all that, of course, but&#160;we shall have to make to-night’s business public.”</p>
<p>“Damn you!” muttered Melville, “you sneering devil.” He showed all his white teeth, half springing, with&#160;crouched shoulders. Wimsey waited quietly, his hands in&#160;his pockets.</p>
<p>The rush did not come. With a furious gesture, Melville pulled out his keys and unlocked his dressing-case.</p>
<p>“Take them,” he growled, flinging a small parcel on the table; “you’ve got me. Take ’em and go to hell.”&#160;“Eventually—why not now?” murmured his lordship.&#160;“Thanks frightfully. Man of peace myself, you know—hate&#160;unpleasantness and all that.” He scrutinised his booty&#160;carefully, ru<span style="text-decoration:underline;">nnin</span>g the stones expertly between his fingers.&#160;Over the portrait he pursed up his lips. “Yes,” he murmured, “that <span style="font-style:italic;">would</span> have made a row.” He replaced&#160;the wrapping and slipped the parcel into his pocket.</p>
<p>“Well, good night, Melville—and thanks for a pleasant game.”</p>
<p>“I say, Biggs,” said Wimsey, when he had returned to the card-room. “You’ve had a lot of experience. What&#160;tactics d’you think one’s justified in usin’ with a blackmailer?”</p>
<p>“AhI” said the K.C. “There you’ve put your finger on Society’s sore place, where the Law is helpless. Speaking&#160;as a man, I’d say nothing could be too bad for the brute.&#160;It’s a crime crueller and infinitely worse in its results than&#160;murder. As a lawyer, I can only say that I have consistently refused to defend a blackmailer or to prosecute any&#160;poor devil who does away with his tormentor.”</p>
<p>“H’m,” replied Wimsey. “What do you say, Colonel?”</p>
<p>“A man like that’s a filthy pest,” said the little warrior stoutly. “Shootin’s too good <sup>f</sup>or him. I knew a man—close&#160;personal friend, in fact— aounded to death—blew his&#160;brains out—one of the best. Don’t like to talk about it.”</p>
<p>“I want to show you something,” said Wimsey.</p>
<p>He picked up the pack which still lay scattered on the table, and shuffled it together.</p>
<p>“Catch hold of these, Colonel, and lay ’em out face downwards. That’s right. First of all you cut ’em at the&#160;twentieth card—you’ll see the seven of diamonds at the&#160;bottom. Correct? Now I’ll call ’em. Ten of hearts, ace of&#160;spades, three of clubs, five of clubs, king of diamonds,&#160;nine, jack, two of hearts. Right? I could pick ’em all out,&#160;you see, except the ace of hearts, and that’s here.”</p>
<p>He leaned forward and produced it dexterously from Sir Impey’s breast-pocket.</p>
<p>“I learnt it from a man who shared my dug-out near Ypres,” he said. “You needn’t mention to-night’s business,&#160;you two. There are crimes which the Law cannot&#160;reach.”</p>
<p>THE UNDIGNIFIED MELODRAMA OF</p>
</body>
</html>