<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head><meta name="charset" content="UTF-8"/><title></title><link rel="stylesheet" href="main.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><h1><a id="bookmark0"></a>THE STOLEN STOMACH</h1>
<p>“What in the world,” said Lord Peter Wimsey, “is that?’ Thomas Macpherson disengaged the tall jar from it!&#160;final swathings of paper and straw and set it tenderb&#160;upright beside the coffee-pot.</p>
<p>Thomas Macpherson disengaged the tall jar from it; final swathings of paper and straw and set it tender^&#160;upright beside the coffee-pot.</p>
<p>“That,” he said, “is Great-Uncle Joseph’s legacy.”</p>
<p>“And who is Great-Uncle Joseph?”</p>
<p>“He was my mother’s uncle. Name of Ferguson Ecccentric old boy. I was rather a favourite of his.”</p>
<p>“It looks like it. Was that all he left you?”</p>
<p>“Imph’m. He said a good digestion was the most precious thing a man could have.”</p>
<p>“Well, he was right there. Is this his? Was it a gooc one?”</p>
<p>“Good enough. He lived to be ninety-five, and nevei had a day’s illness.”</p>
<p>Wimsey looked at the jar with increased respect.</p>
<p>“What did he die of?”</p>
<p>“Chucked himself out of a sixty-story window. He had <span style="font-style:italic;">z </span>stroke, and the doctors told him—or he guessed for himself—that it was the beginning of the end. He left a letter&#160;Said he had never been ill in his life and wasn’t going tc&#160;begin now. They brought it in temporary insanity, oj&#160;course, but I think he was thoroughly sensible.”</p>
<p>“I should say so. What was he when he was functioning?”</p>
<p>“He used to be in business—something to do with ship-building, I believe, but he retired long ago. He was&#160;what the papers call a recluse. Lived all by himself in <span style="font-style:italic;">z&#160;</span>little top flat in Glasgow, and saw nobody. Used to go ofl&#160;by himself for days at a time, nobody knew where oi</p>
<p>why. I used to look him up about once a year and take</p>
<p>him a bottle of whisky.”</p>
<p>“Had he any money?”</p>
<p>“Nobody knew. He ought to have had—he was a rich man when he retired. But, when we came to look into it,&#160;it turned out he only had a balance of about five hundred&#160;pounds in the Glasgow Bank. Apparently he drew out&#160;almost everything he had about twenty years ago. There&#160;were one or two big bank failures round about that time,&#160;and they thouught he must have got the wind up. But&#160;what he did with it, goodness only knows.”</p>
<p>“Kept it in an old stocking, I expect”</p>
<p>“I should think Cousin Robert devoutly hopes so.” “Cousin Robert?”</p>
<p>“He’s the residuary legatee. Distant connection of mine, and the only remaining Ferguson. He was awfully wild&#160;when he found he’d only got five hundred. He’s rather a&#160;bright lad, is Robert, and a few thousands would have&#160;come in handy.”</p>
<p>“I see. Well, how about a bit of brekker? You might stick Great Uncle-Joseph out of the way somewhere. I&#160;don’t care about the looks of him.”</p>
<p>“I thought you were rather partial to anatomical specimens.”</p>
<p>“So I am, but not on the breakfast-table. ‘A place for everything and everything in its place,’ as my grandmother&#160;used to say. Besides, it would give Maggie a shock if she&#160;saw it.”</p>
<p>Macpherson laughed, and transferred the jar to a cupboard.</p>
<p>“Maggie’s shock-proof. I brought a few odd bones and things with me, by way of a holiday task. I’m getting near&#160;my final, you know. She’ll just think this is another of&#160;them. Ring the bell, old man, would you? We’ll see what&#160;the trout’s like.”</p>
<p>The door opened to admit the housekeeper, with a dish of grilled trout and a plate of fried scones.</p>
<p>“These look good, Maggie,” said Wimsey, drawing his chair up and sniffing appreciatively.</p>
<p>“Aye, sir, they’re gude, but they’re awfu’ wee fish.”</p>
<p>“Don’t grumble at them,” said Macpherson. “They’re the sole result of a day’s purgatory up on Loch Whyneon.&#160;What with the sun fit to roast you and an east wind, I’m&#160;pretty well flayed alive. I veiy nearly didn’t shave at all this&#160;morning.” He passed a reminiscent hand over his red and&#160;excoriated face. “Ugh! It’s a stiff pull up that hill, and the</p>
<p>boat was going wallop, wallop all the time, like being in the Bay of Biscay.”</p>
<p>“Damnable, I should think. But there’s a change coming. The glass is going back. We’ll be having some rain before we’re many days older.”</p>
<p>‘Time, too,” said Macpherson. “The bums are nearly dry, and there’s not much water in the Fleet.” He glanced&#160;out of the window to where the little river ran tinkling&#160;and skinkling over the stones at the bottom of the garden.&#160;“If only we get a few days’ rain now, there’ll be some&#160;grand fishing.”</p>
<p>“It <span style="font-style:italic;">would</span> come just as I’ve got to go, naturally,” remarked Wimsey.</p>
<p>“Yes; can’t you stay a bit longer? I want to have a try for some sea-trout.”</p>
<p>“Sorry, old man, can’t be done. I must be in Town on Wednesday. Never mind. I’ve had a fine time in the fresh&#160;air and got in some good rounds of golf.”</p>
<p>“You must come up another time. I’m here for a month—getting my strength up for the exams and all&#160;that. If you can’t get away before I go, we’ll put it off till&#160;August and have a shot at the grouse. The cottage is&#160;always at your service, you know, Wimsey.”</p>
<p>“Many thanks. I may get my business over quicker than I think, and, if I do, I’ll turn up here again. When did you&#160;say your great-uncle died?”</p>
<p>Macpherson stared at him.</p>
<p>“Some time in April, as far as I can remember. Why?”</p>
<p>“Oh, nothing—I just wondered. You were a favourite of his, didn’t you say?”</p>
<p>“In a sense. I think the old boy liked my remembering him from time to time. Old people are pleased by little&#160;attentions, you know.”</p>
<p>“M’m. Well, it’s a queeer world. What did you say his name was?”</p>
<p>“Ferguson—Joseph Alexander Ferguson, to be exact. You seem extraordinarily interested in Great-Uncle&#160;Joseph.”</p>
<p>“I thought, while I was about it, I might look up a man I know in the ship-building line, and see if he knows&#160;anything about where the money went to.”</p>
<p>“If you can do that, Cousin Robert will give you a medal. But, if you really want to exercise your detective&#160;powers on the problem, you’d better have a hunt through&#160;file flat in Glasgow.”</p>
<p>“Yes—what is the address, by the way?”</p>
<p>Macpherson told him the address.</p>
<p>“I’ll make a note of it, and, if anything occurs to me, I’ll communicate with Cousin Robert. Where does he hang</p>
<p>out?”</p>
<p>“Oh, he’s in London, in a solicitor’s office. Crosbie &amp; Plump, somewhere in Bloomsbury. Robert was.studying&#160;for the Scottish Bar, you know, but he made rather a mess&#160;of things, so they pushed him off among the Sassenachs.&#160;His father died a couple of years ago—he was a Writer to&#160;the Signet in Edinburgh—and I fancy Robert has rather&#160;gone to the bow-wows since then. Got among a cheerful&#160;crowd down there, don’t you know, and wasted his substance somewhat.”</p>
<p>“Terrible! Scotsmen shouldn’t be allowed to leave home. What are you going to do with Great-Uncle?”</p>
<p>“Oh, I don’t know. Keep him for a bit, I think. I liked the old fellow, and I don’t want to throw him away. He’ll&#160;look rather well in my consulting-room, don’t you think,&#160;when I’m qualified and set up my brass plate. I’ll say he&#160;was presented by a grateful patient on whom I performed&#160;a marvellous operation.”</p>
<p>“That’s a good idea. Stomach-grafting. Miracle of surgery never before attempted. He’ll bring sufferers to your door in flocks.”</p>
<p>“Good old Great-Uncle—he may be worth a fortune to me after all.”</p>
<p>“So he may. I don’t suppose you’ve got such a thing as a photograph of him, have you?”</p>
<p>“A photograph?” Macpherson stared again. “Great-Uncle seems to be becoming a passion with you. I don’t suppose the old man had a photograph taken these thirty&#160;years. There was one done then—when he retired from&#160;business. I expect Robert’s got that.”</p>
<p>“Och aye,” said Wimsey, in the language of the country.</p>
<p>*</p>
<p>Wimsey left Scotland that evening, and drove down through the night towards London, thinking hard as he&#160;went. He handled the wheel mechanically, swerving now&#160;and again to avoid the green eyes of rabbits as they bolted&#160;from the roadside to squat fascinated in the glare of his&#160;head-lamps. He was accustomed to say that his brain&#160;worked better when his immediate attention was occupied&#160;by the incidents of the road.</p>
<p>Monday morning found him in town with his business</p>
<p>finished and his thinking done. A consultation with his ship-building friend had put him in possession of some&#160;facts about Great-Uncle Joseph’s money, together with a&#160;copy of Great-Uncle Joseph’s photograph, supplied by the&#160;London representative of the Glasgow firm to which he&#160;had belonged. It appeared that old Ferguson had been a&#160;man of mark in his day. The portrait showed a fine, dour&#160;old face, long-lipped and high in the cheek-bones—one of&#160;those faces which alter little in a lifetime. Whimsey looked&#160;at the photograph with satisfaction as he slipped it into his&#160;pocket and made a bee-line for Somerset House.</p>
<p>Here he wandered timidly about the wills department, till a uniformed official took pity on him and enquired&#160;what he wanted.</p>
<p>“Oh, thank you,” said Wimsey effusively, “thank you so much. Always feel nervous in these places. All these big&#160;desks and things, don’t you know, so awe-inspiring and&#160;business-like. Yes, I just wanted to have a squint at a will.&#160;I’m told you can see &gt;anybody’s will for a shilling. Is that&#160;really so?”</p>
<p>“Yes, sir, certainly. Anybody’s will in particular, sir?”</p>
<p>“Oh, yes, of course—how silly of me. Yes. Curious, isn’t it, that when you’re dead any stranger can come and&#160;snoop round your private affairs—see how much you cut&#160;up for and who your lady friends were, and all that. Yes.&#160;Not at all nice. Horrid lack of privacy, what?”</p>
<p>The attendant laughed.</p>
<p>“I expect it’s all one when you’re dead, sir.”</p>
<p>“That’s awfully true. Yes, naturally, you’re dead by then and it doesn’t matter. May be a bit trying for your&#160;relations, of course, to learn what a bad boy you’ve been.&#160;Great fun annoyin’ one’s relations. Always do it myself.&#160;Now, what were we sayin’? Ah! yes—the will. (I’m always&#160;so absent-minded.) Whose will, you said? Well, it’s an old&#160;Scots gentleman called Joseph Alexander Ferguson that&#160;died at Glasgow—you know Glasgow, where the accent’s&#160;so strong that even Scotsmen faint when they hear it—in&#160;April, this last April as ever was. If it’s not troubling you&#160;too much, may I have a bob’s-worth of Joseph Alexander&#160;Ferguson?”</p>
<p>The attendant assured him that he might, adding the caution that he must memorise the contents of the will&#160;and not on any account take notes. Thus warned, Wimsey&#160;was conducted into a retired corner, where in a short time&#160;the will was placed before him.</p>
<p>It was a commendably brief document, written in holo-</p>
<p>graph, and was dated the previous January. After the usual preamble and the bequest of a few small sums and&#160;articles of personal ornament to friends, it proceeded</p>
<p>somewhat as follows:</p>
<p>“And I direct that, after my death, the alimentary organs be removed entire with their contents from&#160;my body, commencing with the oesophagus and ending with the anal canal, and that they be properly&#160;secured at both ends with a suitable ligature, and be&#160;enclosed in a proper preservative medium in a glass&#160;vessel and given to my great-nephew Thomas&#160;Macpherson of the Stone Cottage, Gatehouse-of-the&#160;Fleet, in Kirkcudbrightshire, now studying medicine&#160;in Aberdeen. And I bequeath him these my alimentary organs with their contents for his study and&#160;edification, they having served me for ninety-five&#160;years without failure or defect, because I wish him to&#160;understand that no riches in the world are comparable to the riches of a good digestion. And I desire of&#160;him that he will, in the exercise of his medical profession, use his best endeavours to preserve to his patients the blessing of good digestion unimpaired, not&#160;needlessly filling their stomachs with drugs out of&#160;concern for his own pocket, but exhorting them to&#160;sober and temperate life agreeably to the design of&#160;Almighty Providence.<sup>,,</sup></p>
<p>After this remarkable passage, the document went on to make Robert Ferguson residuary legatee without particular specification of any property, and to appoint a firm of&#160;lawyers in Glasgow executors of the will.</p>
<p>Wimsey considered the bequest for some time. From the phraseology he concluded that old Mr. Ferguson had&#160;drawn up his own will without legal aid, and he was glad&#160;of it, for its wording thus afforded a valuable clue to the&#160;testator’s mood and intention. He mentally noted three&#160;points: the “alimentary organs with their contents” were&#160;mentioned twice over, with a certain emphasis; they were&#160;to be ligatured top and bottom; and the legacy was accompanied by the expression of a wish that the legatee should&#160;not allow his financial necessities to interfere with the&#160;conscientious exercise of his professional duties. Wimsey&#160;chuckled. He felt he rather liked Great-Uncle Joseph.</p>
<p>He got up, collected his hat, gloves, and stick, and</p>
<p>advanced with the will in his hand to return it to the attendant. The latter was engaged in conversation with a&#160;young man, who seemed to be expostulating about something.</p>
<p>“I’m sorry sir,” said the attendant, “but I don’t suppose the other gentleman will be very long. Ah!” He turned and&#160;saw Wimsey. “Here is the gentleman.”</p>
<p>The young man, whose reddish hair, long nose, and slightly sodden eyes gave him the appearance of a dissipated fox, greeted Wimsey with a disagreeable stare.</p>
<p>“What’s up? Want me?” asked his lordship airily.</p>
<p>“Yes, sir. Very curious thing, sir; here’s a gentleman enquiring for that very same document as you’ve been&#160;studying, sir. I’ve been in this department fifteen years,&#160;and I don’t know as I ever remember such a thing happening before.”</p>
<p>“No,” said Wimsey, “I don’t suppose there’s much of a run on any of your lines as a rule.”</p>
<p>“It’s a very curious thing indeed,” said the stranger, with marked displeasure in his voice.</p>
<p>“Member of the family?” suggested Wimsey.</p>
<p>“I <span style="font-style:italic;">am</span> a member of the family,” said the foxy-faced man. “May I ask whether <span style="font-style:italic;">you</span> have any connection with&#160;us?”</p>
<p>“By all means,” replied Wimsey graciously.</p>
<p>“I don’t believe it. I don’t know you.”</p>
<p>“No, no—I meant you might ask, by all means.”</p>
<p>The young man positively showed his teeth.</p>
<p>“Do you mind telling me who you are, anyhow, and why you’re so damned inquisitive about my great-uncle’s&#160;will?”</p>
<p>Wimsey extracted a card from his case and presented it with a smile. Mr. Robert Ferguson changed colour.</p>
<p>“If you would like a reference as to my respectability,” went on Wimsey affably, “Mr. Thomas Macpherson will, I&#160;am sure, be happy to tell you about me. I am inquisitive,”&#160;said his lordship—“a student of humanity. Your cousin&#160;mentioned to me the curious clause relating to your esteemed great-uncle’s—er—stomach and appurtenances.&#160;Curious clauses are a passion with me. I came to look it&#160;up and add it to my collection of curious wills. I am&#160;engaged in writing a book on the subject<span style="font-style:italic;">—Clauses and&#160;Consequences.</span> My publishers tell me it should enjoy a&#160;ready sale. I regret that my random jottings should have&#160;encroached upon your doubtless far more serious studies. I&#160;wish you a very good morning.”</p>
<p>As he beamed his way out, Wimsey, who had quick ears, heard the attendant informing the indignant Mr.&#160;Ferguson that he was “a very funny gentleman—not quite&#160;all there, sir.” It seemed that his criminological fame had&#160;not penetrated to the quiet recesses of Somerset House.&#160;“But,” said Wimsey to himself, “I am sadly afraid that&#160;Cousin Robert has been given food for thought.”</p>
<p>Under the spur of this alarming idea, Wimsey wasted no time, but took a taxi down to Hatton Garden, to call&#160;upon a friend of his. This gentleman, rather curly in the&#160;nose and fleshy about the eyelids, nevertheless came under&#160;Mr. Chesterton’s definition of a nice Jew, for his name&#160;was neither Montagu nor McDonald, but Nathan Abrahams. and he greeted Lord Peter with a hospitality&#160;amounting to enthusiasm.</p>
<p>“So pleased to see you. Sit down and have a drink. You have come at last to select the diamonds for the future?&#160;Lady Peter, eh?”</p>
<p>“Not yet,” said Wimsey.</p>
<p>“No? That’s too bad. You should make haste and settle down. It is time you became a family man. Years ago we&#160;arranged I should have the privilege of decking the bride&#160;for the happy day. That is a promise, you know. I <span style="text-decoration:underline;">think</span> of&#160;it when the fine stones pass through my hands. I say, That&#160;would be the very thing for my friend Lord Peter.’ But I&#160;hear nothing, and I sell them to stupid Americans who&#160;think only of the price and not of the beauty.”</p>
<p>“Time enough to think of the diamonds when I’ve found the lady.”</p>
<p>Mr. Abrahams threw up his hands.</p>
<p>“Oh, yes! And then everything will be done in a hurry! ‘Quick, Mr. Abrahams! I have fallen in love yesterday and&#160;I am being married to-morrow.* But it may take months—&#160;years—to find and match perfect stones. It can’t be done&#160;between to-day and to-morrow. Your bride will be married in something ready-made from the jeweller’s.”</p>
<p>If three days are enough to choose a wife,” said Wimsey, laughing, “one day should surely be enough for a&#160;necklace.”</p>
<p>“That is the way with Christians,” replied the diamond-merchant resignedly. “You are so casual. You do not think of the future. Three days to choose a wife! No wonder the&#160;divorce-courts are busy. My son Moses is being married&#160;next week. It has been arranged in the family these ten&#160;years. Rachel Goldstein, it is. A good girl, and her father</p>
<p>is in a very good position. We are all very pleased, I can tell you. Moses is a good son, a very good son, and I am&#160;taking him into partnership.”</p>
<p>“I congratulate you,” said Wimsey heartily. “I hope they will be very happy.”</p>
<p>“Thank you, Lord Peter. They will be happy, I am sure. Rachel is a sweet girl and very fond of children. And&#160;she is pretty, too. Prettiness is not everything, but it is an&#160;advantage for a young man in these days. It is easier for&#160;him to behave well to a pretty wife.”</p>
<p>“True,” said Wimsey. “I will bear it in mind when my time comes. To the health of the happy pair, and may you&#160;soon be an ancestor. Talking of ancestors, I’ve got an old&#160;bird here that you may be able to tell me something&#160;about.”</p>
<p>“Ah, yes! Always delighted to help you in any way, Lord Peter.”</p>
<p>“This photograph was taken some thirty years ago, but you may possibly recognise it.”</p>
<p>Mr. Abrahams put on a pair of horn-rimmed spectacles, and examined the portrait of Great-Uncle Joseph with serious attention.</p>
<p>“Oh, yes, I know him quite well. What do you want to know about him, eh?” He shot a swift and cautious glance&#160;at Wimsey.</p>
<p>“Nothing to his disadvantage. He’s dead, anyhow. I thought it just possible he had been buying precious stones&#160;lately.”</p>
<p>“It is not exactly business to give information about a customer,” said Mr. Abrahams.</p>
<p>“I’ll tell you what I want it for,” said Wimsey. He lightly sketched the career of Great-Uncle Joseph, and went on:&#160;“You see, I looked at it this way. When a man gets a&#160;distrust of banks, what does he do with his money? He&#160;puts it into property of some kind. It may be land, it may&#160;be houses—but that means rent, and more money to put&#160;into banks. He is more likely to keep it in gold or notes,&#160;or to put it into precious stones. Gold and notes are&#160;comparatively bulky; stones are small. Circumstances in&#160;this case led me to think he might have chosen stones.&#160;Unless we can discover what he did with the money, there&#160;will be a great loss to his heirs.”</p>
<p>“I see. Well, if it is as you say, there is no harm in telling you. I know you to be an honourable man, and I&#160;will break my rule for you. This gentleman, Mr. Wallace—</p>
<p>“Wallace, did he call himself?'’</p>
<p>“That was not his name? They are funny, these secretive old gentlemen. But that is nothing unusual. Often, when they buy stones, they are afraid of being robbed, so&#160;they give another name. Yes, yes. Well, this Mr. Wallace&#160;used to come to see me from time to time, and I had&#160;instructions to find diamonds for him. He was looking for&#160;twelve big stones, all matching perfectly and of superb&#160;quality. It took a long time to find them, you know.”</p>
<p>“Of course.”</p>
<p>“Yes. I supplied him with seven altogether, over a period of twenty years or so. And other dealers supplied&#160;him also. He is well known in this street. I found the last&#160;one for him—let me see—in last December, I think. A&#160;beautiful stone—beautiful! He paid seven thousand pounds&#160;for it.”</p>
<p>“Some stone. If they were all as good as that, the collection must be worth something.”</p>
<p>“Worth anything. It is difficult to tell how much. As you know, the twelve stones, all matched together, would&#160;be worth far more than the sum of the twelve separate&#160;prices paid for the individual diamonds.”</p>
<p>“Naturally they would. Do you mind telling me how he was accustomed to pay for them?”</p>
<p>“In Bank of England notes—always—cash on the nail. He insisted on discount for cash,” added Mr. Abrahams,&#160;with a chuckle.</p>
<p>“He was a Scotsman,” replied Wimsey. “Well, that’s clear enough. He had a safe-deposit somewhere, no doubt.&#160;And, having collected the stones, he made his will. That’s&#160;clear as daylight, too.”</p>
<p>“But what has become of the stones?” enquired Mr. Abrahams, with professional anxiety.</p>
<p>“I think I know that too,” said Wimsey. “I’m enormously obliged to you, and so, I fancy, will his heir be.”</p>
<p>“If they should come into the market again-” sug</p>
<p>gested Mr. Abrahams.</p>
<p>“I’ll see you have the handling of them,” said Wimsey promptly.</p>
<p>“That is kind of you,” said Mr. Abrahams. “Business is business. Always delighted to oblige you. Beautiful stones—&#160;beautiful. If you thought of being the purchaser, I would&#160;charge you a special commission, as my friend.”</p>
<p>“Thank you,” said Wimsey, “but as yet I have no occasion for diamonds, you know.”</p>
<p>“Pity, pity,” said Mr. Abrahams. “Well, very glad to</p>
<p>have been of service to you. You are not interested in rubies? No? Because I have something very pretty&#160;here.”</p>
<p>He thrust his hand casually into a pocket, and brought out a little pool of crimson fire like a miniature sunset.</p>
<p>“Look nice in a ring, now, wouldn’t it?” said Mr. Abrahams. “An engagement ring, eh?”</p>
<p>Wimsey laughed, and made his escape.</p>
<p>He was strongly tempted to return to Scotland and fttend personally to the matter of Great-Uncle Joseph,&#160;but the thought of an important book sale next day&#160;Jeterred him. There was a manuscript of Catullus which&#160;he was passionately anxious to secure, and he never en-rusted his interests to dealers. He contented himself with&#160;sending a wire to Thomas Macpherson:</p>
<p>“Advise opening up Greatuncle Joseph immediately.”</p>
<p>The girl at the post-office repeated the message aloud and rather doubtfully. “Quite right,” said Wimsey, and&#160;dismissed the affair from his mind.</p>
<p>He had great fun at the sale next day. He found a ring of dealers in possession, happily engaged in conducting a&#160;knock-out. Having lain low for an hour in a retired&#160;position behind a large piece of statuary, he emerged, just&#160;as the hammer was falling upon the Catullus for a price&#160;representing the tenth part of its value, with an overbid so&#160;large, prompt, and sonorous that the ring gasped with a&#160;sense of outrage. Skrymes—a dealer who had sworn an&#160;eternal enmity to Wimsey, on account of a previous little&#160;encounter over a Justinian—pulled himself together and&#160;offered a fifty-pound advance. Wimsey promptly doubled&#160;his bid. Skrymes overbid him fifty again. Wimsey instantly&#160;jumped another hundred, in the tone of a man prepared to&#160;go on till Doomsday. Skrymes scowled and was silent.&#160;Somebody raised it fifty more; Wimsey made it guineas&#160;and the hammer fell. Encouraged by this success, Wimsey, feeling that his hand was in, romped happily into the&#160;bidding for the next lot, a <span style="font-style:italic;">Hypnerotomachia</span> which he&#160;already possessed, and for which he felt no desire whatever. Skyrmes, annoyed by his defeat, set his teeth, determining that, if Wimsey was in the bidding mood, he should&#160;pay through the nose for his rashness. Wimsey, entering&#160;into the spirit of the thing, skied the bidding with enthusiasm. The dealers, knowing his reputation as a collector,</p>
<p>and fancying that there must be some special excellence about the book that they had failed to observe, joined in&#160;whole-heartedly, and the fun became fast and furious.&#160;Eventually they all dropped out again leaving Skrymes&#160;and Wimsey in together. At which point Wimsey, observing a note of hesitation in the dealer’s voice, neatly extricated himself and left Mr. Skyrmes with the baby. After&#160;this disaster, the ring became sulky and demoralised and&#160;refused to bid at all, and a timid little outsider, suddenly&#160;flinging himself into the arena, became the owner of a fine&#160;fourteenth-century missal at bargain price. Crimson with&#160;excitement and surprise, he paid for his purchase and ran&#160;out of the room like a rabbit, hugging the missal as&#160;though he expected to have it snatched from him. Wimsey&#160;thereupon set himself seriously to acquire a few fine early&#160;printed books, and, having accomplished this, retired, cov-erd with laurels and hatred.</p>
<p>After this delightful and satisfying day, he felt vaguely hurt at receiving no ecstatic telegram from Macpherson.&#160;He refused to imagine that his deductions had been&#160;wrong, and supposed rather that the rapture of Macpherson was too great to be confined to telegraphic expression&#160;and would come next day by post. However, at eleven&#160;next morning the telegram arrived. It said:</p>
<p>‘Just got your wire what does it mean greatuncle stolen last night burglar escaped please write&#160;fully.”</p>
<p>Wimsey committed himself to a brief comment in language usually confined to the soldiery. Robert had undoubtedly got Great-Uncle Joseph, and, even if they could trace the burglary to him, the legacy was by this time&#160;gone for ever. He had never felt so furiously helpless. He&#160;even cursed the Catullus, which had kept <span style="text-decoration:underline;">him</span> from going&#160;north and dealing with the matter personally.</p>
<p>WJule he was meditating what to do, a second telegram was brought in. It ran:&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;.</p>
<p>Greatuncle s bottle found broken in fleet dropped by burglar in fight contents gone what next.”</p>
<p>Wimsey pondered this.</p>
<p>Of course, he said. “If the thief simply emptied th&lt; bottle and put Great-Uncle in his pocket, we're done. Oi&#160;if he s simply emptied Great-Uncle and put the contents ii</p>
<p>his pocket, we’re done. But ‘dropped in flight’ sounds rather as though Great-Uncle had gone overboard lock,&#160;stock, and barrel. Why can’t the fool of a Scotsman put a&#160;few more details into his wires? It’d only cost him a penny&#160;or two. I suppose I’d better go up myself. Meanwhile a little&#160;healthy occupation won’t hurt him.”</p>
<p>He took a telegraph form from the desk and despatched a further message:</p>
<p>“Was greatuncle in bottle when dropped if so drag river if not pursue burglar probably Robert Ferguson&#160;spare no pains starting for Scotland to-night hope&#160;arrive early to-morrow urgent important put your&#160;back into it will explain.”</p>
<p>The night express decanted Lord Peter Wimsey at Dumfries early the following morning, and a hired car&#160;deposited him at the Stone Cottage in time for breakfast.&#160;The door was opened to him by Maggie, who greeted him&#160;with hearty cordiality:</p>
<p>“Come awa’ in, sir. All’s ready for ye, and Mr. Macpherson will be back in a few minutes. I’m thinkin’.&#160;Ye’ll be tired with your long journey, and hungry, maybe?&#160;Aye. Will ye tak’ a bit parritch to your eggs and bacon?&#160;There’s nae troot the day, though yesterday was a gran’&#160;day for the fush. Mr. Macpherson has been up and doun,&#160;up and doun the river wi’ my Jock, lookin’ for ane of his&#160;specimens, as he ca’s them, that was dropped by the thief&#160;that cam* in. I dinna ken what the thing may be—my Jock&#160;says it’s like a calf’s pluck to look at, by what Mr.&#160;Macpherson tells him.”</p>
<p>“Dear me!” said Wimsey. “And how did the burglary happen, Maggie?”</p>
<p>“Indeed, sir, it was a vera’ remarkable circumstance. Mr. Macpherson was awa’ all day Monday and Tuesday,&#160;up at the big loch by the viaduct, fishin’. There was a big&#160;rain Saturday and Sunday, ye may remember, and Mr.&#160;Macpherson says, ‘There’ll be grand fishin’ the morn,&#160;Jock,* says e. ‘We’ll go up to the viaduct if it stops rainin’&#160;and we’ll spend the nicht at the keeper’s lodge.’ So on&#160;Monday it stoppit rainin’ and was a grand warm, soft day,&#160;so aff they went together. There was a telegram come for&#160;him Tuesday mornin*, and I set it up on the mantelpiece,&#160;where he’d see it when he cam’ in, but it’s been in my&#160;mind since that maybe that telegram had something to do&#160;wi’ the burglary.”</p>
<p>“I wouldn’t say but you might be right, Maggie, plied Wimsey gravely.</p><div>
<p>re-</p></div>
<p>“Aye, sir, that wadna surprise me.” Maggie set down a generous dish of eggs and bacon before the guest and took&#160;up her tale again*.</p>
<p>“Well, I was sittin’ in my kitchen the Tuesday night, waitin’ for Mr. Macpherson and Jock to come hame, and&#160;sair I pitied them, the puir souls, for the rain was peltin’&#160;down again, and the nicht wes sae dark I was afraid they&#160;micht ha’ tummelt into a bog-pool. Weel, I was listenin’&#160;for the sound o’ the door-sneck when I heard something&#160;movin’ in the front room. The door wasna lockit, ye ken,&#160;because Mr. Macpherson was expectit back. So I up from&#160;my chair and I thocht they had mebbe came in and I not&#160;heard them. I waited a meenute to set the kettle on the&#160;fire, and then I heard a crackin’ sound. So I cam’ out and&#160;I called, “Is’t you, Mr. Macpherson?’ And there was nae&#160;answer, only anither big crackin’ noise, so I ran forrit, and&#160;a man cam’ quickly oot o’ the front room, brushin’ past me&#160;an’ puttin’ me aside wi’ his hand, so, and oot o’ the front&#160;door like a flash o’ lightin’. So, wi’ that, I let oot a&#160;skelloch, an’ Jock’s voice answered me fra’ the gairden&#160;gate. ‘OchP I says, ‘Jock! here’s a burrglar been i’ the&#160;hoose!’ An’ I heered him runnin’ across the gairden, doun&#160;tae the river, tramplin’ doun a’ the young kail and the&#160;stra’berry beds, the blackguard!”</p>
<p>Wimsey expressed his sympathy.</p>
<p>Aye, that was a bad business. An’ the next thing, there was Mr. Macpherson and Jock helter-skelter after him. If&#160;Davie Murray’s cattle had brokken in, they couldna ha’&#160;done mair deevastation. An’ then there was a big splashin’&#160;<sup>an</sup>, crashin, an, after a bit, back comes Mr. Macpherson</p>
<p><sup>an</sup> &#160;&#160;&#160;n^^<sup>S</sup>’&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<sup>s</sup> i<sup>um</sup>Pft&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;the Fleet,* he says, ‘an* he’s</p>
<p>awa What has he taken?’ he says. ‘I dinna ken,’ says I, ‘for it all happened sae quickly I couldna see onything.* ‘Come&#160;awa ben says he, ‘an’ we’ll see what’s missin’.’ So we&#160;lookit high and low, an’ all we could find was the cup-oard door m the front room broken open, and naething&#160;taken but this bottle wi’ the specimen.”&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;®</p>
<p>“Aha!” said Wimsey. &#160;&#160;&#160;*</p>
<p>“Ah! an’ they baith went oot togither wi’ lichts, but naething could they see of the thief. Sae Mr. Macpherson</p>
<p><sup>b</sup>^<sup>C</sup>i ’ <sup>and</sup> ,<sup>1 m</sup> 8<sup>aun</sup> to ma bed,’ says he, ‘for I’m <sup>tha</sup> V,<sup>re</sup>,<sup>d 1 can c ae nae mair</sup> the nicht,’ says he. ‘Oh<sup>1</sup>’ I&#160;sa.d I daurna gae tae bed; I’m frichtened.’ An’ Jock said,&#160;Hoots, wumman, dinna fash yersel’. There’ll be nae mah</p>
<p>burglars the nicht, wi* the fricht we’ve gied ’em.’ So we lockit up a’ the doors an’ windies an’ gaed to oor beds, but&#160;I couldna sleep a wink.”</p>
<p>“Very natural,” said Wimsey.</p>
<p>“It wasna till the next momin’,” said Maggie, “that Mr. Macpherson opened yon telegram. Eh! but he was in a&#160;taking. An’ then the telegrams startit. Back an’ forrit, back&#160;an’ forrit atween the hoose an’ the post-office. An’ then&#160;they fund the bits o’ the bottle that the specimen was in,&#160;stuck between twa stanes i’ the river. And aff goes Mr.&#160;Macpherson an* Jock wi’ their waders on an’ a couple o’&#160;gaffs, huntin’ in a’ the pools an* under the stanes to find&#160;the specimen. An* they’re still at it.”</p>
<p>At this point three heavy thumps sounded on the ceiling. “Gude save us!” ejaculated Maggie, “I was forgettin’&#160;the puir gentleman.”</p>
<p>“What gentleman?” enquired Wimsey.</p>
<p>“Him that was feshed oot o’ the Fleet,” replied Maggie. “Excuse me juist a moment, sir.”</p>
<p>She fled swiftly upstairs. Wimsey poured himself out a third cup of coffee and lit a pipe.</p>
<p>Presently a thought occurred to him. He finished the coffee—not being a man to deprive himself of his pleasures—and walked quietly upstairs in Maggie’s wake.&#160;Facing him stood a bedroom door, half open—the room&#160;which he had occupied during his stay at the cottage. He&#160;pushed it open. In the bed lay a red-headed gentleman,&#160;whose long, foxy countenance was in no way beautified by&#160;a white bandage, tilted rakishly across the left temple. A&#160;breakfast-tray stood on a table by the bed. Wimsey&#160;stepped forward with extended hand.</p>
<p>“Good morning, Mr. Ferguson,” said he. “This is an unexpected pleasure.”</p>
<p>“Good morning,” said Mr. Ferguson snappishly.</p>
<p>“I had no idea, when we last met,” pursued Wimsey, advancing to the bed and sitting down upon it, “that you&#160;were thinking of visiting my friend Macpherson.”</p>
<p>“Get off my leg,” growled the invalid. “I’ve broken my kneecap.”</p>
<p>“What a nuisance! Frightfully painful, isn’t it? And they say it takes years to get right—if it ever does get right. Is&#160;it what they call a Potts fracture? I don’t know who Potts&#160;was, but it sounds impressive. How did you get it? Fishing?”</p>
<p>“Yes. A slip in that damned river.”</p>
<p>“Beastly. Sort of thing that might happen to anybody. A keen fisher, Mr. Ferguson?”</p>
<p>“So-so.” &#160;&#160;&#160;j fi J</p>
<p>“So am I, when I get the opportunity. What kind of fly do you fancy for this part of the country. I rather like a&#160;Greenaway’s Gadget myself. Ever tried it?”</p>
<p>“No,” said Mr. Ferguson briefly.</p>
<p>“Some people find a Pink Sisket better, so they tell me. Do you use one? Have you got your fly-book here?”</p>
<p>“Yes—no,” said Mr. Ferguson. “I dropped it.”</p>
<p>“Pity. But do give me your opinion of the Pink Sisket.” “Not so bad,” said Mr. Ferguson. “I’ve sometimes&#160;caught trout with it.”</p>
<p>“You surprise me,” said Wimsey, not unnaturally, since he had invented the Pink Sisket on the spur of the moment,&#160;and had hardly expected his improvisation to pass muster.&#160;“Well, I suppose this unlcuky accident has put a stop to&#160;your sport for the season. Damned bad luck. Otherwise,&#160;you might have helped us to have a go at the Patriarch.”&#160;“What’s that? A trout?”</p>
<p>“Yes—a frightfully wily old fish. Lurks about in the Fleet. You never know where to find him. Any moment&#160;he may turn up in some pool or other. I’m going out with&#160;Mac to try for him to-day. He’s a jewel of a fellow. We’ve&#160;nicknamed him Great-Uncle Joseph. Hi! don’t joggle&#160;about like that—you’ll hurt that knee of yours. Is there&#160;anything I can get for you?”</p>
<p>He grinned amiably, and turned to answer a shout from</p>
<p>the stairs.</p>
<p>“Hullo! Wimsey! is that you?”</p>
<p>“It is. How’s sport?”</p>
<p>Macpherson came up the stairs four steps at a time, and</p>
<p>met Wimsey on the landing as he emerged from the bedroom.</p>
<p>“I say, d’you know who that is? It’s Robert.”</p>
<p>I know. I saw him in town. Never mind him. Have you found Great-Uncle?”</p>
<p>No, we haven t. What’s all this mystery about? And</p>
<p>what s Robert doing here? What did you mean by saying</p>
<p>he was the burglar? And why is Great-Uncle Joseph so important?”&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<sup>r</sup></p>
<p>“One thing at a time. Let’s find the old boy first. What have you been doing?”</p>
<p>Well, when I got your extraordinary messages I thought, of course, you were off your rocker.” (Wimsey&#160;groaned with impatience.) “But then I considered what a</p>
<p>funny thing it was that somebody should have thought Great-Uncle worth stealing, and thought there might be&#160;some sense in what you said, after all.” (“Dashed good of&#160;you,” said Wimsey.) “So I went out and poked about a&#160;bit, you know. Not that I think there’s the faintest chance&#160;of finding anything, with the river coming down like this.&#160;Well, I hadn’t got very far—by the way, I took Jock with&#160;me. I’m sure he thinks I’m mad, too. Not that he says</p>
<p>anything; these people here never commit themselves-”</p>
<p>“Confound Jock! Get on with it.”</p>
<p>“Oh—well, before we’d got very far, we saw a fellow wading about in the river with a rod and a creel. I didn’t&#160;pay much attention, because, you see, I was wondering</p>
<p>what you-Yes. Well! Jock noticed him and said to me,</p>
<p>‘Yon’s a queer kind of a fisherman, I’m thinkin’.’ So I had a look, and there he was, staggering about among the&#160;' stones with his fly floating away down the stream in front&#160;of him; and he was peering into all the pools he came to,&#160;and poking about with a gaff. So I hailed him, and he&#160;turned round, and then he put the gaff away in a bit of a&#160;hurry and started to reel in his line. He made an awful&#160;mess of it,” added Macpherson appreciatively.</p>
<p>“I can believe it,” said Wimsey. “A man who admits to catching trout with a Pink Sisket would make a mess of&#160;anything.”</p>
<p>“A pink what?”</p>
<p>“Never mind. I only meant that Robert was no fisher. Get on.”</p>
<p>“Well, he got the line hooked round something, and he was pulling and hauling, you know, and splashing about,&#160;and then it came out all of a sudden, and he waved it all&#160;over the place and got my hat. That made me pretty wild,&#160;and I made after him, and he looked round again, and I&#160;yelled out, ‘Good God, it’s Robert!’ And he dropped his&#160;rod and took to his heels. And of course he slipped on the&#160;stones and came down an awful crack. We rushed forward&#160;and scooped him up and brought him home. He’s got a&#160;nasty bang on the head and a fractured patella. Very&#160;interesting. I should have liked to have a shot at setting it&#160;myself, but it wouldn’t do, you know, so I sent for&#160;Strachan. He’s a good man.”</p>
<p>“You’ve had extraordinary luck about this business so far,” said Wimsey. “Now the only thing left is to find&#160;Great-Uncle. How far down have you got?”</p>
<p>“Not very far. You see, what with getting Robert home</p>
<p>and setting his knee and so on, we couldn’t do much</p>
<p>yesterday.”</p>
<p>“Damn Robert! Great-Uncle may be away out to see by this time. Let’s get down to it.”</p>
<p>He took up a gaff from the umbrella-stand (“Robert’s” interjected Macpherson), and led the way out. The little&#160;river was foaming down in a brown spate, rattling stones&#160;and small boulders along in its passage. Every hole, every&#160;eddy might be a lurk-place for Great-Uncle Joseph. Wim-sey peered irresolutely here and there—then turned suddenly to Jock.</p>
<p>“Where’s the nearest spit of land where things usually get washed up?” he demanded.</p>
<p>“Eh, well! there’s the Battery Pool, about a mile doon the river. Ye’ll whiles find things washed up there. Aye.&#160;Imph’m. There’s a pool and a bit sand, where the river&#160;mak’s a bend. Ye’ll mebbe find it there. I’m thinkin. Mebbe&#160;no. I couldna say.”</p>
<p>“Let’s have a look, anyway.”</p>
<p>Macpherson, to whom the prospect of searching the stream in detail appeared rather a dreary one, brightened&#160;a little at this.</p>
<p>“That’s a good idea. If we take the car down to just above Gatehouse, we’ve only got two fields to cross.”</p>
<p>The car was still at the door; the hired driver was enjoying the hospitality of the cottage. They pried him loose from Maggie’s scones and slipped down the road to Gatehouse.</p>
<p>Those gulls seem rather active about something,” said Wimsey, as they crossed the second field. The white wings&#160;swooped backwards and forwards in narrowing circles&#160;over the yellow shoal. Raucous cries rose on the wind.&#160;Wimsey pointed silently with his hand. A long, unseemly&#160;object, like a drab purse, lay on the shore. The gulls,&#160;indignant, rose higher, squawking at the intruders. Wimsey&#160;ran forward, stooped, rose again with the long bag dangling from his fingers.</p>
<p>Great-Uncle Joseph, I presume,” he said, and raised his hat with old-fashioned courtesy.</p>
<p>“The gulls have had a wee peck at it here and there,” said Jock. “It’ll be tough' for them. Aye. They havena&#160;done so vera much withit.”</p>
<p>“Aren’t you going to open it?” said Macpherson impatiently. &#160;&#160;&#160;<sup>r</sup>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;V</p>
<p>Not here, said Wimsey. “We might lose something.”</p>
<p>He dropped it into Jock’s creel. “We’ll take it home first and show it to Robert.”</p>
<p>Robert greeted them with ill-disguised irritation.</p>
<p>“We’ve been fishing,” said Wimsey cheerfully. “Look at our bonny wee fush.” He weighed the catch in his hand.&#160;“What’s inside this wee fush, Mr. Ferguson?”</p>
<p>“I haven’t the faintest idea,” said Robert.</p>
<p>“Then why did you go fishing for it?” asked Wimsey pleasantly. “Have you got a surgical knife there, Mac?”&#160;“Yes—here. Hurry up.”</p>
<p>“I’ll leave it to you. Be careful. I should begin with the stomach.”</p>
<p>Macpherson laid Great-Uncle Joseph on the table, and slit <span style="text-decoration:underline;">him</span> open with a practised hand.</p>
<p>“Gude be gracious to us!” cried Maggie, peering over his shoulder. “What’ll that be?”</p>
<p>Wimsey inserted a delicate finger and thumb into the</p>
<p>cavities of Uncle Joseph. “One—two—three-” The</p>
<p>stones glittered like fire as he laid them on the table. “Seven—eight—nine. That seems to be all. Try a little&#160;further down, Mac.”</p>
<p>Speechless with astonishment, Mr. Macpherson dissected his legacy.</p>
<p>‘Ten—eleven,” said Wimsey. “I’m afraid the sea-gulls have got number twelve. I’m sorry, Mac.”</p>
<p>“But how did they get there?” demanded Robert foolishly.</p>
<p>“Simple as shelling peas. Great-Uncle Joseph makes his</p>
<p>will, swallows his diamonds-”</p>
<p>“He must ha’ been a grand man for a pill,” said Maggie, with respect.</p>
<p>“—and jumps out of the window. It was as clear as crystal to anybody who read the will. He told you, Mac,&#160;that the stomach was given you to study.”</p>
<p>Robert Ferguson gave a deep groan.</p>
<p>“I knew there was something in it,” he said. “That’s why I went to look up the will. And when I saw <span style="font-style:italic;">you&#160;</span>there, I knew I was right. (Curse this leg of mine!) But I</p>
<p>never imagined for a moment-”</p>
<p>His eyes appraised the diamonds greedily.</p>
<p>“And what will the value of these same stones be?” enquired Jock.</p>
<p>“About seven thousand pounds apiece, taken separately. More than that, taken together.”</p>
<p>“The old man was mad,” said Robert angrily. “I shall dispute the will.”</p>
<p>“I think not,” said Wimsey. “There’s such an offence as entering and stealing, you know.”</p>
<p>“My God!” said Macpherson, handling the diamonds like a man in a dream. “My God!”</p>
<p>“Seven thousan’ pund,” said Jock. “Did I unnerstan’ ye richtly to say that one o’ they gulls is gaun aboot noo wi’&#160;seven thousan’ pund’s worth o’ diamonds in his wame?&#160;Ech! It’s just awfu’ to think of. Guid day to you, sirs. I’ll be&#160;gaun round to Jimmy McTaggart to ask will he lend me&#160;the loan o’ a gun.”</p>
<p>THE UNSOLVED PUZZLE OF</p>
</body>
</html>