<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head><meta name="charset" content="UTF-8"/><title></title><link rel="stylesheet" href="main.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><h1><a id="bookmark0"></a>THE CAVE OF ALI BABA</h1>
<p>In the front room of a grim and narrow house in Lambeth a man sat eating kippers and glancing through the <span style="font-style:italic;">Morning Post.</span> He was smallish and spare, with brown hair&#160;rather too regularly waved and a strong, brown beard, cut&#160;to a point. His double-breasted suit of navy-blue and his&#160;socks, tie, and handkerchief, all scrupulously matched,&#160;were a trifle more point-device than the best taste approves, and his boots were slightly too bright a brown. He&#160;did not look a gentleman, not even a gentleman’s gentleman, yet there was something about his appearance which&#160;suggested that he was accustomed to the manner of life in&#160;good families. The breakfast-table, which he had set with&#160;his own hands, was arrayed with the attention to detail&#160;which is exacted of good-class servants. His action, as he&#160;walked over to a little side-table and carved himself a&#160;plate of ham, was the action of a superior butler; yet he&#160;was not old enough to be a retired butler; a footman,&#160;perhaps, who had come into a legacy.</p>
<p>He finished the ham with good appetite, and, as he</p>
<p>sipped his coffee, read through attentively a paragraph</p>
<p>which he had already noticed and put aside for consideration.</p>
<p><span style="font-variant:small-caps;">“Lord Peter Wimsey’s Will</span></p>
<p>BEQUEST TO VALET £10,000 TO CHARITIES</p>
<p>The will of Lord Peter Wimsey, who was killed last December while shooting big game in Tanganyika, was proved yesterday at £500,000. A sum of&#160;£10,000 was left to various charities, including [here&#160;followed a list of bequests]. To his valet, Mervyn&#160;Bunter, was left an annuity of £ 500 and the lease of</p>
<p>226</p>
<p>the testator’s flat in Piccadilly. [Then followed a number of personal bequests.] The remainder of the&#160;estate, including the valuable collection of books and&#160;pictures at 110a Piccadilly, was left to the testator’s&#160;mother, the Dowager Duchess of Denver.</p>
<p>“Lord Peter Wimsey was thirty-seven at the time of his death. He was the younger brother of the&#160;present Duke of Denver, who is the wealthiest peer&#160;in the United Kingdom. Lord Peter was distinguished&#160;as a criminologist and took an active part in the&#160;solution of several famous mysteries. He was a well-known book collector and man-about-town.”</p>
<p>The man gave a sigh of relief.</p>
<p>“No doubt about that,” he said aloud. “People don’t give their money away if they’re going to come back&#160;again. The blighter’s dead and buried right enough. I’m&#160;free.”</p>
<p>He finished his coffee, cleared the table, and washed up the crockery, took his bowler hat from the hall-stand, and&#160;went out.</p>
<p>A bus took him to Bermondsey. He alighted, and plunged into a network of gloomy streets, arriving after a&#160;quarter of an hour’s walk at a seedy-looking public-house&#160;in a low quarter. He entered and called for a double&#160;whisky.</p>
<p>The house had only just opened, but a number of customers, who had apparently been waiting on the doorstep for this desirable event, were already clustered about&#160;the bar. The man who might have been a footman&#160;reached for his glass, and in doing so jostled the elbow of a&#160;flash person in a check suit and regrettable tie.</p>
<p>“Here!” expostulated the flash person, “What d’yer mean by it? We don’t want your sort here. Get out!”</p>
<p>He emphasised his remarks with a few highly coloured words, and a violent push in the chest.</p>
<p>“Bar’s free to everybody, isn’t it?” said the other, returning the shove with interest.</p>
<p>“Now then!” said the barmaid, “none o’ that. The gentleman didn’t do it intentional, Mr. Jukes.”</p>
<p>“Didn’t he?” said Mr. Jukes. “Well, I <span style="font-style:italic;">didr</span></p>
<p>“And you ought to be ashamed of yourself,” retorted</p>
<p>the young lady, with a toss of the head. “I’ll have no quarrelling in my bar—not this time in the morning.”</p>
<p>“It was quite an accident,” said the man from Lambeth. “I’m not one to make a disturbance, having always been&#160;used to the best houses. But if any gentleman <span style="font-style:italic;">wants</span> to</p>
<p>make trouble-”</p>
<p>“All right, all right,” said Mr. Jukes, more pacifically. “I’m not keen to give you a new face. Not but what any&#160;alteration wouldn’t be for the better. Mind your maimers&#160;another time, that’s all. What’ll you have?”</p>
<p>“No, no,” protested the other, “this one must be on me. Sorry I pushed you. I didn’t mean it. But I didn’t like to&#160;be taken up so short.”</p>
<p>“Say no more about it,” said Mr. Jukes generously. “I’m standing this. Another double whisky, miss, and one of the&#160;usual. Come over here where there isn’t so much of a&#160;crowd, or you’ll be getting yourself into trouble again.”</p>
<p>He led the way to a small table in the corner of the room.</p>
<p>“That’s all right,” said Mr. Jukes. “Very nicely done. I don’t think there’s any danger here, but you can’t be too&#160;careful. Now, what about it, Rogers? Have you made up&#160;your mind to come in with us?”</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Rogers, with a glance over his shoulder, “yes, I have. That is, mind you, if everything seems all&#160;right. I’m not looking for trouble, and I don’t want to get&#160;let in for any dangerous games. I don’t mind giving you&#160;information, but it’s understood as I take no active part in&#160;whatever goes on. Is that straight?”</p>
<p>“You wouldn’t be allowed to take an active part if you wanted to, said Mr. Jukes. “Why, you poor fish, Number&#160;One wouldn’t have anybody but experts on his jobs. All&#160;you have to do is to let us know where the stuff is and&#160;how to get it. The Society does the rest. It’s some organisation, I can tell you. You won’t even know who’s doing&#160;it, or how its done. You won’t know anybody, and nobody will know you—except Number One, of course. He&#160;knows everybody.”</p>
<p>“And you,” said Rogers.</p>
<p>And me, of course. But I shall be transferred to another district. We shan’t meet again after to-day, except</p>
<p>at the general meetings, and then we shall all be masked.”</p>
<p>“Go on!” said Rogers incredulously.</p>
<p>“Fact. You’ll be taken to Number One—he’ll see you</p>
<p>but you won t see him. Then, if he thinks you’re any good,</p>
<p>you’ll be put on the roll, and after that you’ll be told where to make your reports to. There is a divisional&#160;meeting called once a fortnight, and every three months&#160;there’s a general meeting and share-out. Each member is&#160;called up by number and has his whack handed over to&#160;him. That’s all.”</p>
<p>“Well, but suppose two members are put on the same job together?”</p>
<p>“If it’s a daylight job, they’ll be so disguised their mothers wouldn’t know ’em. But it’s mostly night&#160;work.”</p>
<p>“I see. But, look here—what’s to prevent somebody following me home and giving me away to the police?”&#160;“Nothing, of course. Only I wouldn’t advise him to try&#160;it, that’s all. The last man who had that bright idea was&#160;fished out of the river down Rotherhithe way, before he&#160;had time to get his precious report in. Number One knows&#160;everybody, you see.”</p>
<p>“Oh!—and who is this Number One?”</p>
<p>“There’s lots of people would give a good bit to know that”</p>
<p>“Does nobody know?”</p>
<p>“Nobody. He’s a fair marvel, is Number One. He’s a gentleman, I can tell you that, and a pretty high-up one,&#160;from his ways. <span style="font-style:italic;">And</span> he’s got eyes all round his head. <span style="font-style:italic;">And&#160;</span>he’s got an arm as long as from here to Australia. <span style="font-style:italic;">But&#160;</span>nobody knows anything about him, unless it’s Number&#160;Two, and I’m not even sure about her.”</p>
<p>“There are women in it, then?”</p>
<p>“You can bet your boots there are. You can’t do a job without ’em nowadays. But that needn’t worry you. The&#160;women are safe enough. They don’t want to come to a&#160;sticky end, no more than you and me.</p>
<p>“But, look here, Jukes—how about the money? It’s a big risk to take. Is it worth it?”</p>
<p>“Worth it?” Jukes leant across the little marble-topped table and whispered.</p>
<p>“Coo!” gasped Rogers. “And how much of that would I get, now?”</p>
<p>“You’d share and share alike with the rest, whether you’d been in that particular job or not. There’s fifty&#160;members, and you’d get one-fiftieth, same as Number One&#160;and same as me.”</p>
<p>“Really? No kidding?”’</p>
<p>“See that wet, see that dry!” Jukes laughed. “Say, can you beat it? There’s never been anything like it. It’s the</p>
<p>biggest thing ever been known. He’s a great man, is Number One.”</p>
<p>“And do you pull off many jobs?”</p>
<p>“Many? Listen. You remember the Carruthers necklace, and the Gorleston Bank robbery? And the Faver-sham burglary? And the big Rubens that disappeared from the National Gallery? And the Frensham pearls? All done&#160;by the Society. And never one of them cleared up.”</p>
<p>Rogers licked his lips.</p>
<p>“But now, look here,” he said cautiously. “Supposing I was a spy, as you might say, and supposing I was to go&#160;straight off and tell the police about what you’ve been</p>
<p>saying?”</p>
<p>“Ah ” said Jukes, “suppose you did, eh? Well, supposing something nasty didn’t happen to you on the way there—</p>
<p>which I wouldn’t answer for, mind-”</p>
<p>“Do you mean to say you’ve got me watched?”</p>
<p>“You can bet your sweet life we have. Yes. Well, <span style="font-style:italic;">supposing</span> nothing happened on the way there, and you&#160;was to bring the slops to this pub, looking for yours</p>
<p>truly-”</p>
<p>“Yes?”</p>
<p>“You wouldn’t find me, that’s all. I should have gone to Number Five.”</p>
<p>“Who’s Number Five?”</p>
<p>Ah! I don’t know. But he’s the man that makes you a new face while you wait. Plastic surgery, they call it. And&#160;new finger-prints. New everything. We go in for up-to-date methods in our show.”</p>
<p>Rogers whistled.</p>
<p>Well, how about it?” asked Jukes, eyeing his acquaintance over the rim of his tumbler.</p>
<p>“Look here—you’ve told me a lot of things. Shall I be safe if I say ‘no’?”</p>
<p>y<sup>es</sup> ^ y°<sup>u</sup> behave yourself and don’t make trouble for us.”</p>
<p>“H’m, I see. And if I say ‘yes’?”</p>
<p>Then you 11 be a rich man in less than no time, with money m your pocket to live like a gentleman. And&#160;nothing to do for it, except to tell us what you know&#160;about the houses you’ve been to when you were in service&#160;It s money for jam if you act straight by the Society ”&#160;Rodgers was silent, thinking it over.</p>
<p>“I’ll do it!” he said at last.</p>
<p>Good for you. Miss! The same again, please. Here’s to it, Rogers! I knew you were one of the right sort the</p>
<p>minute I set eyes on you. Here’s to money for jam, and take care of Number One! Talking of Number One, you’d&#160;better come round and see him to-night. No time like the&#160;present.”</p>
<p>“Right you are. Where’ll I come to? Here?”</p>
<p>“Nix. No more of this little pub for us. It’s a pity, because it’s nice and comfortable, but it can’t be helped.&#160;Now, what you’ve got to do is this. Al ten o’clock to-night&#160;exactly, you walk north across Lambeth Bridge” (Rogers&#160;winced at this intimation that his abode was known), “and&#160;you’ll see a yellow taxi standing there, with the driver&#160;doing something to his engine. You’ll say to him, ‘Is your&#160;bus fit to go?’ and he’ll say, ‘Depends where you want to&#160;go to.' And you’ll say. Take me to Number One, London.’ There’s a shop called that, by the way, but he won’t&#160;take you there. You won't know where he <span style="font-style:italic;">is</span> taking you,&#160;because the taxi-windows will be covered up, but you&#160;mustn’t mind that. It’s the rule for the first visit. Afterwards, when you’re regularly one of us, you’ll be told the&#160;name of the place. And when you get there, do as you’re&#160;told and speak the truth, because, if you don’t, Number&#160;One will deal with you. See?”</p>
<p>“I see.” &#160;&#160;&#160;'</p>
<p>“Are you game? You’re not afraid?”</p>
<p>“Of course I’m not afraid.”</p>
<p>“Good man! Well, we’d better be moving now. And I’ll say good-bye, because we shan’t see each other again.&#160;Good-bye—and good luck!”</p>
<p>“Good-bye.”</p>
<p>They passed through the swing-doors, and out into the mean and dirty street.</p>
<p>The two years subsequent to the enrolment of the ex-footman Rogers in a crook society were marked by a&#160;number of startling and successful raids on the houses ol&#160;distinguished people. There was the theft of the great&#160;diamond tiara from the Dowager Duchess of Denver; the&#160;burglary at the flat formerly occupied by the late Lord&#160;Peter Wimsey, resulting in the disappearance of &lt;£7,000&#160;worth of silver and gold plate; the burglary at the country&#160;mansion of Theodore Winthrop, the millionaire—which,&#160;incidentally, exposed that thriving gentleman as a&#160;confirmed Society blackmailer and caused a reverberating&#160;scandal in Mayfair; and the snatching of the famous&#160;eight-string necklace of pearls from the neck of the Marchioness of Dinglewood during the singing of the Jewel</p>
<p>Song in <span style="font-style:italic;">Faust</span> at Convent Garden. It is true that the pearls turned out to be imitation, the original string&#160;having been pawned by the noble lady under circumstances highly painful to the Marquis, but the coup was&#160;nevertheless a sensational one.</p>
<p>On a Saturday afternoon in January, Rogers was sitting in his room in Lambeth, when a slight noise at the front&#160;door caught his ear. He sprang up almost before it had&#160;ceased, dashed through the small hallway, and flung the&#160;door open. The street was deserted. Nevertheless, as he&#160;turned back to the sitting-room, he saw an envelope lying&#160;on the hat-stand. It was addressed briefly to “Number&#160;Twenty-one.” Accustomed by this time to the somewhat&#160;dramatic methods used by the Society to deliver its correspondence, he merely shrugged his shoulders, and opened&#160;the note.</p>
<p>It was written in cipher, and, when transcribed, ran</p>
<p>thus:</p>
<p>“Number Twenty-one,—An Extraordinary General Meeting will be held to-night at the house of Number&#160;One at 11:30. You will be absent at your peril. The&#160;word is <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Finality.”</span></p>
<p>Rogers stood for a little time considering this. Then he made his way to a room at the back of the house, in&#160;which there was a tall safe, built into the wall. He manipulated the combination and walked into the safe, which ran&#160;back for some distance, forming, indeed, a small strongroom. He pulled out a drawer marked “Correspondence,”&#160;and added the paper he had just received to the contents.</p>
<p>After a few moments he emerged, re-set the lock to a new combination, and returned to the sitting-room.</p>
<p>“Finality,” he said. “Yes—I think so.” He stretched out his hand to the telephone—then appeared to alter his&#160;mind.</p>
<p>He went upstairs to an attic, and thence climbed into a lolt close under the roof. Crawling among the rafters, he&#160;made his way into the farthest corner: then carefully&#160;pressed a knot on the timber-work. A concealed trap-door&#160;swung open. He crept through it, and found himself in the&#160;corresponding loft of the next house. A soft cooing noise&#160;greeted him as he entered. Under the skylight stood three&#160;cages, each containing a carrier pigeon.</p>
<p>He glanced cautiously out of the skylight, which looked</p>
<p>out upon a high blank wall at the back of some factory or other. There was nobody in the dim little courtyard, and&#160;no window within sight. He drew his head in again, and,&#160;taking a small fragment of thin paper from his pocket-book, wrote a few letters and numbers upon it. Going to&#160;the nearest cage, he took out the pigeon and attached the&#160;message to its wing. Then he carefully set the bird on the&#160;window-ledge. It hesitated a moment, shifted its pink feet&#160;a few times, lifted its wings, and was gone. He saw it&#160;tower up into the already darkening sky over the factory&#160;roof and vanish into the distance.</p>
<p>He glanced at his watch and returned downstairs. An hour later he released the second pigeon, and in another&#160;hour the third. Then he sat down to wait.</p>
<p>At half-past nine he went up to the attic again. It was dark, but a few frosty stars were shining, and a cold air&#160;blew through the open window. Something pale gleamed&#160;faintly on the floor. He picked it up—it was warm and&#160;feathery. The answer had come.</p>
<p>He ruffled the soft plumes and found the paper. Before reading it, he fed the pigeon and put it into one of the&#160;cages. As he was about to fasten the door, he checked&#160;himself.</p>
<p>“If anything happens to me,” he said, “there’s no need for you to starve to death, my child.”</p>
<p>He pushed the window a little wider open and went downstairs again. The paper in his hand bore only the two&#160;letters, “O.K.” It seemed to have been written hurriedly,&#160;for there was a long smear of ink in the upper left-hand&#160;corner. He noted this with a smile, put the paper in the&#160;fire, and, going out into the kitchen, prepared and ate a&#160;hearty meal of eggs and corned beef from a new tin. He&#160;ate it without bread, though there was a loaf on the shelf&#160;near at hand, and washed it down with water from the&#160;tap, which he let run for some time before venturing to&#160;drink it. Even then he carefully wiped the tap, both inside&#160;and outside, before drinking.</p>
<p>When he had finished, he took a revolver from a locked drawer, inspecting the mechanism with attention to see&#160;that it was in working order, and loaded it with new&#160;cartridges from an unbroken packet. Then he sat down to&#160;wait again.</p>
<p>At a quarter before eleven, he rose and went out into the street. He walked briskly, keeping well away from the&#160;wall, till he came out into a well-lighted thoroughfare.&#160;Here he took a bus, securing the corner seat next the</p>
<p>conductor, from which he could see everybody who got on and off. A succession of buses eventually brought him to a&#160;respectable residential quarter of Hampstead. Here he&#160;alighted and, still keeping well away from the walls, made&#160;his way up to the Heath.</p>
<p>The night was moonless, but not altogether black, and, as he crossed a deserted part of the Heath, he observed&#160;one or two other dark forms closing in upon him from&#160;various directions. He paused in the shelter of a large tree,&#160;and adjusted to his face a black velvet mask, which&#160;covered him from brow to chin. At its base the number 21&#160;was clearly embroidered in white thread.</p>
<p>At length a slight dip in the ground disclosed one of those agreeable villas which stand, somewhat isolated,&#160;among the rural surroundings of the Heath. One of the&#160;windows was lighted. As he made his way to the door,&#160;other dark figures, masked like himself, pressed forward&#160;and surrounded him. He counted six of them.</p>
<p>The foremost man knocked on the door of the solitary house. After a moment, it was opened slightly. The man&#160;advanced his head to the opening; there was a murmur,&#160;and the door opened wide. The man stepped in, and the&#160;door was shut.</p>
<p>When three of the men had entered, Rogers found himself to be the next in turn. He knocked, three times&#160;loudly, then twice faintly. The door opened to the extent&#160;of two or three inches, and an ear was presented to the&#160;chink. Rogers whispered “Finality.” The ear was withdrawn, the door opened, and he passed in.</p>
<p>Without any further word of greeting, Number Twenty-one passed into a small room on the left, which was furnished like an office, with a desk, a safe, and a couple&#160;of chairs. At the desk sat a massive man in evening dress,&#160;with a ledger before him. The new arrival shut the door&#160;carefully after him; it clicked to, on a spring lock. Advancing ^ to the desk, he announced, “Number Twenty-one,&#160;sir, and stood respectfully waiting. The big man looked&#160;up, showing the number 1 startlingly white on his velvet&#160;mask.^ His eyes, of a curious hard blue, scanned Rogers&#160;attentively. At a sign from him, Rogers removed his mask.&#160;Having verified his identity with care, the President said,&#160;Very well, Number Twenty-one,” and made an entry in&#160;the ledger. The voice was hard and metallic, like his eyes.&#160;The close scrutiny from behind the immovable black mask&#160;seemed to make Rogers uneasy; he shifted his feet, and his&#160;eyes fell. Number One made a sign of dismissal, and</p>
<p>Rogers, with a faint sigh as though of relief, replaced his mask and left the room. As he came out, the next comei&#160;passed in in his place.</p>
<p>The room in which the Society met was a large one, made by knocking the two largest of the first-floor rooms&#160;into one. It was furnished in the standardised taste of&#160;twentieth-century suburbia and brilliantly lighted. A gramophone in one corner blared out a jazz tune, to which about&#160;ten couples of masked men and women were dancing, some&#160;in evening dress and others in tweeds and jumpers.</p>
<p>In one corner of the room was an American bar. Rogers went up and asked the masked man in charge for&#160;a double whisky. He consumed it slowly, leaning on the&#160;bar. The room filled. Presently somebody moved across to&#160;the gramophone and stopped it. He looked round. Number One had appeared on the threshold. A tall woman in&#160;black stood beside him. The mask, embroidered with a&#160;white 2, covered hair and face completely; only her fine&#160;bearing and her white arms and bosom and the dark eyes&#160;shining through the eye-slits proclaimed her a woman of&#160;power and physical attraction.</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen.” Number One was standing at the upper end of the room. The woman sat beside him; her&#160;eyes were cast down and betrayed nothing, but her hands&#160;were clenched on the arms of the chair and her whole&#160;figure seemed tensely aware.</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen. Our numbers are two short to-night.” The masks moved; eyes were turned, seeking&#160;and counting. “I need not inform you of the disastrous&#160;failure of our plan for securing the plans of the Court-Windlesham helicopter. Our courageous and devoted comrades, Number Fifteen and Number Forty-eight, were&#160;betrayed and taken by the police.”</p>
<p>An uneasy murmur arose among the company.</p>
<p>“It may have occurred to some of you that even the well-known steadfastness of these comrades might give&#160;way under examination. There is no cause for alarm. The&#160;usual orders have been issued, and I have this evening&#160;received the report that their tongues have been effectually silenced. You will, I am sure, be glad to know that&#160;these two brave men have been spared the ordeal of sc&#160;great a temptation to dishonour, and that they will not be&#160;called upon to face a public trial and the rigours of a long&#160;imprisonment.”</p>
<p>A hiss of intaken breath moved across the assembled members like the wind over a barley-field.</p>
<p>“Their dependants will be discreetly compensated in the usual manner. I call upon Numbers Twelve and Thirty-four to undertake this agreeable task. They will attend me&#160;in my office for their instructions after the meeting. Will&#160;the Numbers I have named kindly signify that they are&#160;able and willing to perform this duty?”</p>
<p>Two hands were raised in salute. The President continued, looking at his watch: &#160;&#160;&#160;-</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen, please take your partners for the next dance.”</p>
<p>The gramophone struck up again. Rogers turned to a girl near him in a red dress. She nodded, and they slipped&#160;into the movement of a fox-trot. The couples gyrated&#160;solemnly and in silence. Their shadows were flung against&#160;the blinds as they turned and stepped to and fro.</p>
<p>“What has happened?” breathed the girl in a whisper, scarcely moving her lips. “I’m frightened, aren’t you? I&#160;feel as if something awful was going to happen.”</p>
<p>“It does take one a bit short, the President’s way of doing things,” agreed Rogers, “but it’s safer like that.”&#160;‘Those poor men-”</p>
<p>A dancer, turning and following on their heels, touched Rogers on the shoulder.</p>
<p>“No talking, please,” he said. His eyes gleamed sternly; he twirled his partner into the middle of the crowd and&#160;was gone. The girl shuddered.</p>
<p>The gramophone stopped. There was a burst of clapping. The dancers again clustered before the President’s seat.</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen. You may wonder why this extraordinary meeting has been called. The reason is a&#160;serious one. The failure of our recent attempt was no&#160;accident. The police were not on the premises that night&#160;by chance. We have a traitor among us.”</p>
<p>Partners who had been standing close together fell distrustfully apart. Each member seemed to shrink, as a&#160;snail shrinks from the touch of a finger.</p>
<p>You will remember the disappointing outcome of the Dinglewood affair,” went on the President, in his harsh&#160;voice. You may recall other smaller matters which have&#160;not turned out satisfactorily. All these troubles have been&#160;traced to their origin. I am happy to say that our minds can&#160;now be easy. The offender has been discovered and will be&#160;removed. There will be no more mistakes. The misguided&#160;member who introduced the traitor to our Society will be</p>
<p>placed in a position where his lack of caution will have no further ill-effects. There is no cause for alarm.”</p>
<p>Every eye roved about the company, searching for the traitor and his unfortunate sponsor. Somewhere beneath&#160;the black masks a face must have turned white; somewhere under the stifling velvet there must have been a&#160;brow sweating, not with the heat of the dance. But the&#160;masks hid everything.</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen, please take your partners for the next dance.”</p>
<p>The gramophone struck into an old and half-forgotten tune: “There ain’t nobody loves me.” The girl in red was&#160;claimed by a tall mask in evening dress. A hand laid on&#160;Rogers’s arm made him start. A small, plump woman in a&#160;green jumper slipped a cold hand into his. The dance went&#160;on.</p>
<p>When it stopped, amid the usual applause, everyone stood, detached, stiffened in expectation. The President’s&#160;voice was raised again.</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen, please behave naturally. This is a dance, not a public meeting.”</p>
<p>Rogers led his partner to a chair and fetched her an ice. As he stooped over her, he noticed the hurried rise&#160;and fall of her bosom.</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen.” The endless interval was over. “You will no doubt wish to be immediately relieved from&#160;suspense. I will name the persons involved. Number Thirty-seven!”</p>
<p>A man sprang up with a fearful, strangled cry.</p>
<p>“Silence!”</p>
<p>The wretch choked and gasped.</p>
<p>“I never—I swear I never—I’m innocent.”</p>
<p>“Silence. You have failed in discretion. You will be dealt with. If you have anything to say in defence of your folly,&#160;I will hear it later. Sit down.”</p>
<p>Number Thirty-seven sank down upon a chair. He pushed his handkerchief under the mask to wipe his face.&#160;Two tall men closed in upon him. The rest fell back,&#160;feeling the recoil of humanity from one stricken by mortal&#160;disease.</p>
<p>The gramophone struck up.</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen, I will now name the traitor. Number Twenty-one, stand forward.”</p>
<p>Rogers stepped forward. The concentrated fear and loathing of forty-eight pairs of eyes burned upon him. The&#160;miserable Jukes set up a fresh wail.</p>
<p>“Oh, my God! Oh, my God!”</p>
<p>“Silence! Number Twenty-one, take off your mask.”</p>
<p>The traitor pulled the thick covering from his face. The intense hatred of the eyes devoured him.</p>
<p>“Number Thirty-seven, this man was introduced here by you, under the name of Joseph Rogers, formerly second&#160;footman in the service of the Duke of Denver, dismissed&#160;for pilfering. Did you take steps to verify that statement?”</p>
<p>“I did—I did! As God’s my witness, it was all straight. I had him identified by two of the servants. I made&#160;enquiries. The tale was straight—I’ll swear it was.”</p>
<p>The President consulted a paper before him, then he looked at his watch again.</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen, please take your partners</p>
<p>Number Twenty-one, his arms twisted behind <span style="text-decoration:underline;">him</span> and bound, and his wrists handcuffed, stood motionless, while*&#160;the dance of doom circled about him. The clapping, as it&#160;ended, sounded like the clapping of the men and women&#160;who sat, thirsty-lipped beneath the guillotine.</p>
<p>“Number Twenty-one, your name has been given as Joseph Rogers, footman, dismissed for theft. Is that your&#160;real name?”</p>
<p>“No.”</p>
<p>“What is your name?”</p>
<p>“Peter Death Bredon Wimsey.”</p>
<p>“We thought you were dead.”</p>
<p>“Naturally. You were intended to think so.”</p>
<p>“What has become of the genuine Joseph Rogers?”</p>
<p>He died abroad. I took his place. I may say that no</p>
<p>real blame attaches to your people for not having realised</p>
<p>who I was. I not only took Rogers’s place; I <span style="font-style:italic;">was</span> Rogers</p>
<p>Even when I was alone, I walked like Rogers, I sat like</p>
<p>Rogers, I read Rogers’s books, and wore Rogers’s clothes.</p>
<p>In the end, I almost thought Rogers’s thoughts. The only</p><div>
<p><sup>robber</sup>y y°<sup>u</sup>r own flat was arranged?” Obviously.”&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="font-style:italic;"><sup>b</sup></span></p></div>
<p>way to keep up a successful impersonation is never to relax.”</p>
<p>The robbery of the Dowager Duchess, your mother, was connived at by you?”</p>
<p>“u 7“- *<sup>was a ver</sup>V ugly tiara—no real loss to anybody with decent taste. May I smoke, by the way?”</p>
<p>You may not. Ladies and gentlemen ...”</p>
<p>The dance was like the mechanical jigging of puppets.</p>
<p>Limbs jerked, feet faltered. The prisoner watched with an air of critical detachment.</p>
<p>“Numbers Fifteen, Twenty-two, and Forty-nine. You have watched the prisoner. Has he made any attempts to&#160;communicate with anybody?”</p>
<p>“None.” Number Twenty-two was the spokesman. “His letters and parcels have been opened, his telephone tapped,&#160;and his movements followed. His water-pipes have been&#160;under observation for Morse signals.”</p>
<p>“You are sure of what you say?”</p>
<p>“Absolutely.”</p>
<p>“Prisoner, have you been alone in this adventure? Speak the truth, or things will be made somewhat more unpleasant&#160;for you than they might otherwise be.”</p>
<p>“I have been alone. I have taken no unnecessary risks.” “It may be so. It will, however, be as well that steps&#160;should be taken to silence the man at Scotland Yard—&#160;what is his name?—Parker. Also the prisoner’s manservant,&#160;Mervyn Bunter, and possibly also his mother and sister.&#160;The brother is a stupid oaf, and not, I think, likely to have&#160;been taken into the prisoner’s confidence. A precautionary&#160;watch will, I think, meet the necessities of his case.”</p>
<p>The prisoner appeared, for the first time, to be moved.</p>
<p>“Silence!”</p>
<p>The President glanced round at the crowd. It had a dangerous look about it. He gave way.</p>
<p>“Very well. Take the prisoner away and silence him. He will receive Number 4 treatment. And be sure you explain&#160;it to him carefully first.”</p>
<p>“Ah!”</p>
<p>The eyes expressed a wolfish satisfaction. Strong hands gripped Wimsey’s arms.</p>
<p>“One moment—for God’s sake, let me die decently.” “You should have thought this over earlier. Take him&#160;away. Ladies and gentlemen, be satisfied—he will not die&#160;quickly.”</p>
<p>“Stop! Wait!” cried Wimsey desperately. “I have some-</p>
<p>thing to say. I don’t ask for life—only for a quick death.</p>
<p>I—I have something to sell.”</p>
<p>“To sell?”</p>
<p>“Yes.” &#160;&#160;&#160;'&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;|</p>
<p>“We make no bargains with traitors.”</p>
<p>“No—but listen! Do you think I have not thought of this? i am not so mad. I have left a letter.”</p>
<p>“Ah! now it is coming. A letter. To whom?”</p>
<p>“To the police. If I do not return to-morrow-”</p>
<p>“Well?”</p>
<p>“The letter will be opened.”</p>
<p>“Sir,” broke in Number Fifteen. “This is bluff. The prisoner has not sent any letter. He has been strictly&#160;watched for many months.”</p>
<p>“Ah! but listen, I left the letter before I came to Lambeth.”</p>
<p>“Then it can contain no information of value.”</p>
<p>“Oh, but it does.”</p>
<p>“What?” &#160;&#160;&#160;.</p>
<p>“The combination of my safe.”</p>
<p>“Indeed? Has this man’s safe been searched?”</p>
<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
<p>“What did it contain?”</p>
<p>* No information of importance, sir. An outline of our organisation—the name of this house—nothing that cannot be altered and covered before morning.”</p>
<p>Wimsey smiled.</p>
<p>“Did you investigate the inner compartment of the</p>
<p>this inner compartment, if it does exist?”</p>
<p><sup>nan</sup>J<sup>es</sup> of every member of this Society, with their addresses^photographs, and finger-prints.”</p>
<p>, <sup>e</sup>f<sup>s rou</sup>nd him now were ugly with fear. Wimsey kept his face steadily turned towards the President.</p>
<p>How do you say you have contrived to get this in formation?”</p>
<p>“Well, I have been doing a little detective work on nr own, you know.”</p>
<p>“But you have been watched.”</p>
<p>“True. The finger-prints of my watchers adorn the firs page of the collection.”</p>
<p>“This statement can be proved?”</p>
<p>“Certainly. I will prove it. The name of Number Fifty</p>
<p>for example-”</p>
<p>A fierce muttering arose. The President silenced it witl a gesture.</p>
<p>“If you mention names here, you will certainly have n&lt; hope of mercy. There is a fifth treatment—kept specially&#160;for people who mention names. Bring the prisoner to nr&#160;office. Keep the dance going.”</p>
<p>The President took an automatic from his hip-pocke and faced his tightly fettered prisoner across the desk.&#160;“Now speak!” he said.</p>
<p>“I should put that thing away, if I were you,” saic Wimsey contemptuously. “It would be a much pleasante:&#160;form of death than treatment Number 5, and I might b&lt;&#160;tempted to ask for it.”</p>
<p>“Ingenious,” said the President, “but a little too ingeni ous. Now, be quick; tell me what you know.”</p>
<p>“Will you spare me if I tell you”</p>
<p>“I make no promises. Be quick.”</p>
<p>Wimsey shrugged his bound and aching shoulders. “Cetainly. I will tell you what I know. Stop me whei&#160;you have heard enough.”</p>
<p>He leaned forward and spoke low. Overhead the noisi of the gramophone and the shuffling of feet bore witnes:&#160;that the dance was going on. Stray passers-by crossing th&lt;&#160;Heath noted that the people in the lonely house wen&#160;making a night of it again.</p>
<p>“Well,” said Wimsey, “am I to go on?”</p>
<p>From beneath the mask the President’s voice soundec as though he were grimly smiling.</p>
<p>“My lord,” he said, “your story fills me with regret tha you are not, in fact, a member of our Society. Wit&#160;courage, and industry are valuable to an association life&#160;ours. I fear I cannot persuade you? No—I suppose!&#160;not.”</p>
<p>He touched a bell on his desk.</p>
<p>“Ask the members kindly to proceed to the supper room,” he said to the mask who entered.</p>
<p>The “supper-room” was on the ground-floor, shuttere&lt;</p>
<p>and curtained. Down its centre ran a long, bare table,</p>
<p>with chairs set about it.</p>
<p>“A Barmecide feast, I see,” said Wimsey pleasantly. It was the first time he had seen this room. At the far end, a&#160;trap-door in the floor gaped ominously.</p>
<p>The President took the head of the table.</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen,” he began, as usual—and the foolish courtesy had never sounded so sinister—“I will not&#160;conceal from you the seriousness of the situation. The&#160;prisoner has recited to me more than twenty names and&#160;addresses which were thought to be unknown, except to&#160;their owners and to me. There has been great carelessness”—his voice rang harshly—“which will have to be&#160;looked into. Finger-prints have been obtained—he has&#160;shown me the photographs of some of them. How our&#160;investigators came to overlook the inner door of this safe&#160;is a matter which calls for enquiry.”</p>
<p>“Don’t blame them,” put in Wimsey. “It was meant to be overlooked, you know. I made it like that on purpose.”</p>
<p>The President went on, without seeming to notice the interruption.</p>
<p>“The prisoner informs me that the book with the names and addresses is to be found in this inner compartment,&#160;together with certain letters and papers stolen from the&#160;houses of members, and numerous objects bearing authentic finger-prints. I believe him to be telling the truth. He&#160;offers the combination of the safe in exchange for a quick&#160;death. I think the offer should be accepted. What is your&#160;opinion, ladies and gentlemen?”</p>
<p>“The combination is known already,” said Number Twenty-two.</p>
<p>“Imbecile! This man has told us, and has proved to me, that he is Lord Peter Wimsey. Do you think he will have&#160;forgotten to alter the combination? And then there is the&#160;secret of the inner door. If he disappears to-night and the&#160;police enter his house-”</p>
<p>I say,” said a woman’s rich voice, “that the promise should be given and the information used—and quickly.&#160;Time is getting short.”</p>
<p>A murmur of agreement went round the table.</p>
<p>You hear, said the President, addressing Wimsey.</p>
<p>The Society offers you the privilege of a quick death in return for the combination of the safe and the secret of&#160;the inner door.”</p>
<p>“I have your word for it?”</p>
<p>“You have.”</p>
<p>“Thank you. And my mother and sister?”</p>
<p>“If you in your turn will give us your word—you are ; man of honour—that these men know nothing that couL&#160;harm us, they shall be spared.”</p>
<p>“Thank you, sir. You may rest assured, upon m; honour, that they know nothing. I should not think o&#160;burdening any woman with such dangerous secrets—&#160;particularly those who are dear to me.”</p>
<p>“Very well. It is agreed—yes?”</p>
<p>The murmur of assent was given, though with les readiness than before.</p>
<p>“Then I am willing to give you the information yo want. The word of the combination is <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">unreliability.”&#160;</span>“And the inner door?”</p>
<p>“In anticipation of the visit of the police, the inne door—which might have presented difficulties—is open.&#160;“Good! You understand that if the police interfere wit</p>
<p>our messenger-”</p>
<p>“That would not help me, would it?”</p>
<p>“It is a risk,” said the President thoughtfully, “but a risi which I think we must take. Carry the prisoner down t&#160;the cellar. He can amuse himself by contemplating ap&#160;paratus Number 5. In the meantime, Numbers Twelve an</p>
<p>Forty-six-”</p>
<p>“No, no!”</p>
<p>A sullen mutter of dissent arose and swelled threater ingly.</p>
<p>“No,” said a tall man with a voice like treacle. “No-why should any members be put in possession of thi evidence? We have found one traitor among us to-nigt&#160;and more than one fool. How are we to know ths&#160;Numbers Twelve and Forty-six are not fools and traitoi&#160;also?”</p>
<p>The two men turned savagely upon the speaker, but girl’s voice struck into the discussion, high and agitated.</p>
<p>“Hear, hear! That’s right, I say. How about us? W ain’t going to have our names read by somebody we don&#160;know nothing about. I’ve had enough of this. They migf&#160;sell the ’ole lot of us to the narks.”</p>
<p>“I agree,” said another member. “Nobody ought to b trusted, nobody at all.”</p>
<p>The President shrugged his shoulders.</p>
<p>“Then what, ladies and gentlemen, do you suggest?” There was a pause. Then the same girl shrilled oi&#160;again:</p>
<p>“I say Mr. President ougbier go himself. He’s the only one as knows all the names. It won’t be no cop to him.&#160;Why should we take all the risk and trouble and him sit at&#160;home and collar the money? Let him go himself, that’s&#160;what I say.”</p>
<p>A long rustle of approbation went round the table.</p>
<p>“I second that motion,” said a stout man who wore a bunch of gold seals at his fob. Wimsey smiled as he looked&#160;at the seals; it was that trifling vanity which had led him&#160;directly to the name and address of the stout man, and he&#160;felt a certain affection for the trinkets on that account.</p>
<p>The President looked round.</p>
<p>“It is the wish of the meeting, then, that I should go?” he said, in an ominous voice.</p>
<p>Forty-five hands were raised in approbation. Only the woman known as Number Two remained motionless and&#160;silent, her strong white hands clenched on the arm of the&#160;chair.</p>
<p>The President rolled his eyes slowly round the threatening ring till they rested upon her.</p>
<p>“Am I to take it that this vote is unanimous?” he enquired.</p>
<p>The woman raised her head.</p>
<p>“Don’t go,” she gasped faintly.</p>
<p>“You hear,” said the President, in a faintly derisive tone, “This lady says, don’t go.”</p>
<p>“I submit that what Number Two says is neither here nor there,” said the man with the treacly voice. “Our own&#160;ladies might not like us to be going, if they were in&#160;madam’s privileged position.” His voice was an insult.</p>
<p>“Hear, hear!” cried another man. “This is a democratic society, this is. We don’t want no privileged classes.”</p>
<p>“Very well,” said the President. “You hear, Number Two. The feeling of the meeting is against you. Have you&#160;any reasons to put forward in favour of your opinion?”</p>
<p>“A hundred. The President is the head and soul of our Society. If anything should happen to him—where should&#160;we be? You”—she swept the company magnificently with&#160;her eyes “you have all blundered. We have your carelessness to thank for all this. Do you think we should be&#160;safe for five minutes if the President were not here to&#160;repair your follies?”</p>
<p>“Something in that,” said a man who had not hitherto</p>
<p>spoken.</p>
<p>“Pardon my suggesting,” said Wimsey maliciously, “that, as the lady appears to be in a position peculiarly</p>
<p>favourable for the reception of the President’s confidences, the contents of my modest volume will probably be no news to her. Why should not Number Two gc&#160;herself?”</p>
<p>“Because I say she must not,” said the President sternly, checking the quick reply that rose to his companion’s lips,&#160;“If it is the will of the meeting, I will go. Give me the key&#160;of the house.”</p>
<p>One of the men extracted it from Wimsey’s jacket-pocket and handed it over.</p>
<p>“Is the house watched?” he demanded of Wimsey.</p>
<p>“No.”</p>
<p>“That is the truth?”</p>
<p>“It is the truth.”</p>
<p>The President turned at the door.</p>
<p>“If I have not returned in two hours’ time,” he said, “act for the best to save yourselves, and do what you like&#160;with the prisoner. Number Two will give orders in my&#160;absence.”</p>
<p>He left the room. Number Two rose from her seat with a gesture of command.</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen. Supper is now considered over. Start the dancing again.”</p>
<p>Down in the cellar the time passed slowly, in the contemplation of apparatus Number 5. The miserable Jukes, alternately wailing and raving, at length shrieked himself&#160;into exhaustion. The four members guarding the prisoners&#160;whispered together from time to time.</p>
<p>“An hour and a half since the President left,” said one.</p>
<p>Wimsey glanced up. Then he returned to his examination of the room. There were many curious things in it, which he wanted to memorise.</p>
<p>Presently the trap-door was flung open. “Bring him up!” cried a voice. Wimsey rose immediately, and his face&#160;was rather pale.</p>
<p>The members of the gang were again seated round the table. Number Two occupied the President’s chair, and her&#160;eyes fastened on Wimsey’s face with a tigerish fury, but&#160;when she spoke it was with a self-control which roused his&#160;admiration.</p>
<p>“The President has been two hours gone,” she said. “What has happened to him? Traitor twice over—what&#160;has happened to him?”</p>
<p>“How should I know?” said Wimsey. “Perhaps he has looked after Number One and gone while the going was</p>
<p>good!”</p>
<p>She sprang up with a little cry of rage, and came close to him.</p>
<p>“Beast! liar!” she said, and struck him on the mouth. “You know he would never do that. He is faithful to his&#160;friends. What have you done with him? Speak—or I will&#160;make you speak. You two, there—bring the irons. He</p>
<p><span style="font-style:italic;">shall</span> speak!”</p>
<p>“I can only form a guess, Madame,” replied Wimsey, “and I shall not guess any the better for being stimulated&#160;with hot irons, like Pantaloon at the circus. Calm yourself,&#160;and I will tell you what I think. I think—indeed, I greatly&#160;fear—that Monsieur le President in his hurry to examine&#160;the interesting exhibits in my safe may, quite inadvertently, no doubt, have let the door of the inner compartment&#160;close behind him. In which case-”</p>
<p>He raised his eyebrows, his shoulders being too sore for shrugging, and gazed at her with a limpid and innocent&#160;regret.</p>
<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
<p>Wimsey glanced round the circle.</p>
<p>“I think,” he said, “I had better begin from the beginning by explaining to you the mechanism of my safe. It is rather a nice safe,” he added plaintively. “I invented the&#160;idea myself—not the principle of its working, of course;&#160;that is a matter for scientists—but just the idea of the&#160;thing.</p>
<p>“The combination I gave you is perfectly correct as far as it goes. It is a three-alphabet thirteen-letter lock by&#160;Bunn &amp; Fishett—a very good one of its kind. It opens the&#160;outer door, leading into the ordinary strong-room, where I&#160;keep my cash and my Froth Blower’s cuff-links and all&#160;that. But there is an inner compartment with two doors,&#160;which open in a quite different manner. The outermost of&#160;these two inner doors is merely a thin steel skin, painted&#160;to look like the back of the safe and fitting closely, so as&#160;not to betray any join. It lies in the same plane as the wall&#160;of the room, you understand, so that if you were to&#160;measure the outside and the inside of the safe you would&#160;discover no discrepancy. It opens outwards with an ordinary key, and, as I truly assured the President, it was left&#160;open when I quitted my flat.”</p>
<p>“Do you think,” said the woman sneeringly, “that the President is so simple as to be caught in a so obvious trap?</p>
<p>He will have wedged open that inner door undoubt edly.”</p>
<p>“Undoubtedly, madame. But the sole purpose of tha outer inner door, if I may so express myself, is to appea&#160;to be the only inner door. But hidden behind the hinge o&#160;that door is another door, a sliding panel, set so closely ii&#160;the thickness of the wall that you would hardly see i&#160;unless you knew it was there. This door was also lef&#160;open. Our revered Number One had nothing to do but <span style="font-style:italic;">U&#160;</span>walk straight through into the inner compartment of th&#160;safe, which, by the way, is built into the chimney of th&#160;old basement kitchen, which runs up the house at tha&#160;point. I hope I make myself clear?”</p>
<p>“Yes, yes—get on. Make your story short.”</p>
<p>Wimsey bowed, and, speaking with even greater delib eration than ever, resumed:</p>
<p>“Now, this interesting list of the Society’s activities which I have had the honour of compiling, is written in ;&#160;very large book—bigger, even, than Monsieur le Pres&#160;ident’s ledger which he uses downstairs. (I trust, by th&#160;way, madame, that you have borne in mind the necessity&#160;of putting that ledger in a safe place. Apart from the risl&#160;of investigation by some officious policeman, it would b&#160;inadvisable that any junior member of the Society should&#160;get hold of it. The feeling of the meeting would, I fanc&gt;&#160;be opposed to such an occurrence.)”</p>
<p>“It is secure,” she answered hastily. <span style="font-style:italic;">“Mon dieu!</span> get o: with your story.”</p>
<p>“Thank you—you have relieved my mind. Very gooc This big book lies on a steel shelf at the back of the inne&#160;compartment. Just a moment. I have not described thi&#160;inner compartment to you. It is six feet high, three fee&#160;wide, and three feet deep. One can stand up in it quit&#160;comfortably, unless one is very tall. It suits me nicely—a&#160;you may see, I am not more than five feet eight and&#160;half. The President has the advantage of me in height; h&#160;might be a little cramped, but there would be room fc&#160;him to squat if he grew tired of standing. By the way,&#160;don’t know if you know it, but you have tied me up rathe&#160;tightly.”</p>
<p>“I would have you tied till your bones were locke together. Beat him, you! He is trying to gain time.”</p>
<p>“If you beat me,” said Wimsey, “I’m damned if F speak at all. Control yourself, madame; it does not do t&#160;move hastily when your king is in check.”</p>
<p>“Get on!” she cried again, stamping with rage.</p>
<p>“Where was I? Ah! the inner compartment. As I say, it is a little snug—the more so that it is not ventilated in any&#160;way. Did I mention that the book lay on a steel shelf?”</p>
<p>“You did.”</p>
<p>“Yes. The steel shelf is balanced on a very delicate concealed spring. When the weight of the book—a heavy&#160;one, as I said—is lifted, the shelf rises almost imperceptibly. In rising it makes an electrical contact. Imagine to&#160;yourself, madame; our revered President steps in—&#160;propping the false door open behind him—he sees the&#160;book—quickly he snatches it up. To make sure that it is&#160;the right one, he opens it—he studies the pages. He looks&#160;about for the other objects I have mentioned, which bear&#160;the marks of fingerprints. And silently, but very, very&#160;quickly—you can imagine it, can you not?—the secret&#160;panel, released by the rising of the shelf, leaps across like&#160;a panther behind him. Rather a trite simile, but apt, don’t&#160;you think?”</p>
<p>“My God! oh, my God!” Her hand went up as though to tear the choking mask from her face. “You—you devil—&#160;devil! What is the word that opens the inner door? Quick!&#160;I will have it tom out of you—the word!”</p>
<p>“It is not a hard word to remember, madame—though it has been forgotten before now. Do you recollect, when&#160;you were a child, being told the tale of ‘Ali Baba and the&#160;Forty Thieves’? When I had that door made, my mind&#160;reverted, with rather a pretty touch of sentimentality, in&#160;my opinion, to the happy hours of my childhood. The&#160;words that open the door are—‘Open Sesame.* ”</p>
<p>“Ah! How long can a man live in this devil’s trap of yours?”</p>
<p>Oh,” said Wimsey cheerfully, “I should think he might</p>
<p>hold out a few hours if he kept cool and didn’t use up the</p>
<p>available oxygen by shouting and hammering. If we went</p>
<p>there at once, I dare say we should find him fairly all right.”&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="font-style:italic;"><sup>J</sup></span></p>
<p>I shall go myself. Take this man and—do your worst</p>
<p>with him. Don t finish him till I come back. I want to see him die!”</p>
<p>. moment, said Wimsey, unmoved by this amiable wish. I think you had better take me with vou ”</p>
<p>“Why—why?”</p>
<p>Because, you see, I’m the only person who can open the door.”</p>
<p>“But you have given me the word. Was that a lie?”</p>
<p>“No—the word’s all right. But, you see, it’s one of these</p>
<p>new-style electric doors. In fact, it’s really the very latest thing in doors. I’m rather proud of it. It opens to the&#160;words ‘Open Sesame’ all right<span style="font-style:italic;">—but to my voice only”&#160;</span>“Your voice? I will choke your voice with my own&#160;hands. What do you mean—your voice only?”</p>
<p>“Just what I say. Don’t clutch my throat like that, or you may alter my voice so that the door won’t recognise&#160;it. That’s better. It’s apt to be rather pernickety about&#160;voices. It got stuck up for a week once, when I had a cold&#160;and could only implore it in a hoarse whisper. Even in the&#160;ordinary way, I sometimes have to try several times before&#160;I hit on the exact right intonation.”</p>
<p>She turned and appealed to a short, thick-set man standing beside her.</p>
<p>“Is this true? Is it possible?”</p>
<p>“Perfectly, ma’am, I’m afraid,” said the man civilly. From his voice Wimsey took him to be a superior workman of some kind—probably an engineer.</p>
<p>“Is it an electrical device? Do you understand it?”</p>
<p>“Yes, ma’am. It will have a microphone arrangement somewhere, which converts the sound into a series of&#160;vibrations controlling an electric needle. When the needle&#160;has traced the correct pattern, the circuit is completed and&#160;the door opens. The same thing can be done by light&#160;vibrations equally easily.”</p>
<p>“Couldn’t you open it with tools?”</p>
<p>“In time, yes, ma’am. But only by smashing the machan-ism, which is probably well protected.”</p>
<p>“You may take that for granted,” interjected Wimsey reassuringly.</p>
<p>She put her hands to her head.</p>
<p>“I’m afraid we’re done in,” said the engineer, with a kind of respect in his tone for a good job of work.</p>
<p>“No—wait! Somebody must know—the workmen who made this thing?”</p>
<p>“In Germany,” said Wimsey briefly.</p>
<p>“Or—yes, yes, I have it—a gramophone. This—this— <span style="font-style:italic;">he</span>—shall be made to say the word for us. Quick—how&#160;can it be done?”</p>
<p>“Not possible, ma’am. Where should we get the apparatus at half-past three on a Sunday morning? The poor</p>
<p>gentleman would be dead long before-”</p>
<p>There was a silence, during which the sounds of the awakening day came through the shuttered windows. A&#160;motor-horn sounded distantly.</p>
<p>“I give in,” she said. “We must let him go. Take the</p>
<p>ropes off him. You will free him, won’t you?” she went on, turning piteously to Wimsey. “Devil as you are, you&#160;are not such a devil as that! You will go straight back and</p>
<p>save him!”</p>
<p>“Let him go, nothing!” broke in one of the men. “He doesn’t go to preach to the police, my lady, don’t you&#160;think it. The President’s done in, that’s all, and we’d all&#160;better make tracks while we can. It’s all up, boys. Chuck&#160;this fellow down the cellar and fasten him in, so he can’t&#160;make a row and wake the place up. I’m going to destroy&#160;the ledgers. You can see it done if you don’t trust me.&#160;And you, Thirty, you know where the switch is. Give us a&#160;quarter of an hour to clear, and then you can blow the&#160;place to glory.”</p>
<p>“No! You can’t go—you can’t leave him to die—your President*—your leader—my—I won’t let it happen. Set&#160;this devil free. Help me, one of you, with the ropes-”</p>
<p>“None of that, now,” said the man who had spoken before. He caught her by the wrists, and she twisted,&#160;shrieking, in his arms, biting and struggling to get free.</p>
<p>“Think, think,” said the man with the treacly voice. “It’s getting on to morning. It’ll be light in an hour or&#160;two. The police may be here any minute.”</p>
<p>“The police!” She seemed to control herself by a violent effort. “Yes, yes, you are right. We must not imperil the&#160;safety of all for the sake of one man. <span style="font-style:italic;">He</span> himself would&#160;not wish it. That is so. We will put this carrion in the&#160;cellar where it cannot harm us, and depart, every one to&#160;his own place, while there is time.”</p>
<p>“And the other prisoner?”</p>
<p>“He? Poor fool—he can do no harm. He knows nothing. Let him go,” she answered contemptuously.</p>
<p>In a few minutes’ time Wimsey found himself bundled tmceremoniously into the depths of the cellar. He was a&#160;little puzzled. That they should refuse to let him go, even&#160;at the price of Number One’s life, he could understand. He&#160;had taken the risk with his eyes open. But that they&#160;should leave him as a witness against them seemed incredible.</p>
<p>The men who had taken him down strapped his ankles together and departed, switching the lights out as they&#160;went.</p>
<p>Hi! Kamerad!” said Wimsey. “It’s a bit lonely sitting here. You might leave the light on.”</p>
<p>“It’s all right, my friend,” was the reply. “You will not be in the dark long. They have set the time-fuse.”</p>
<p>The other man laughed with rich enjoyment, and the went out together. So that was it. He was to be blown u&#160;with the house. In that case the President would certainl&#160;be dead before he was extricated. This worried Wimsey&#160;he would rather have been able to bring the big crook t&#160;justice. After all, Scotland Yard had been waiting si&#160;years to break up this gang.</p>
<p>He waited, straining his ears. It seemed to him that h heard footsteps over his head. The gang had all crept ot&#160;by this time.. ..</p>
<p>There was certainly a creak. The trap-door had openec he felt, rather than heard, somebody creeping into tb&#160;cellar.</p>
<p>“Hush!” said a voice in his ear. Soft hands passed ove his face, and went fumbling about his body. There cam&#160;the cold touch of steel on his wrists. The ropes slackene&#160;and dropped off. A key clicked in the handcuffs. The stra&#160;about his ankles was unbuckled.</p>
<p>“Quick! quick! they have set the time-switch. Th house is mined. Follow me as fast as you can. I stol&#160;back—I said I had left my jewellery. It was true. I left i&#160;on purpose. <span style="font-style:italic;">He</span> must be saved—only you can do it. Mak&#160;haste.”</p>
<p>Wimsey, staggering with pain, as the blood rushed bac into his bound and numbed arms, crawled after her int&lt;&#160;the room above. A moment, and she had flung back tb&#160;shutters and thrown the window open.</p>
<p>“Now go! Release him! You promise?”</p>
<p>“I promise. And I warn you, madame, that this house i surrounded. When my safe-door closed it gave a signa&#160;which sent my servant to Scotland Yard. Your friends an&#160;all taken-”</p>
<p>“Ah! But you go—never mind me—quick! The time i: almost up.”</p>
<p>“Come away from this!”</p>
<p>He caught her by the arm, and they went running anc stumbling across the little garden. An electric torch shon&lt;&#160;suddenly in the bushes.</p>
<p>“That you, Parker?” cried Wimsey. “Get your fellow; away. Quick! the house is going up in a minute.”</p>
<p>The garden seemed suddenly full of shouting, hurrying men. Wimsey, floundering in the darkness, was brough&#160;up violently against the wall. He made a leap at the&#160;coping, caught it, and hoisted himself up. His hand*&#160;groped for the woman; he swung her up beside him. The)&#160;jumped; everyone was jumping; the woman caught hei</p>
<p>foot and fell with a gasping cry. Wimsey tried to stop himself, tripped over a stone, and came down headlong.&#160;Then, with a flash and a roar, the night went up in fire.</p>
<p>Wimsey picked himself painfully out from among the debris of the garden wail. A faint moaning near him&#160;proclaimed that his companion was still alive. A lantern&#160;was turned suddenly upon them.</p>
<p>“Here you are!” said a cheerful voice. “Are you all right, old thing? Good lord! what a hairy monster!”</p>
<p>“All right,” said Wimsey. “Only a bit winded. Is the lady safe? H’m—arm broken, apparently—otherwise sound.&#160;What’s happened?”</p>
<p>“About half a dozen of ’em got blown up; the rest we’ve bagged.” Wimsey became aware of a circle of dark&#160;forms in the wintry dawn. “Good Lord, what a day! What&#160;a come-back for a public character! You old stinker—to&#160;let us go on for two years thinking you were dead! I&#160;bought a bit of black for an arm-band. I did, really. Did&#160;anybody know, besides Bunter?”</p>
<p>“Only my mother and sister. I put it in a secret trust— you know, the thing you send to executors and people. We&#160;shall have an awful time with the laywers, I’m afraid,&#160;proving I’m me. Hullo! Is that friend Sugg?”</p>
<p>“Yes, my lord,” said Inspector Sugg, grinning and nearly weeping with excitement “Damned glad to see your lordship again. Fine piece of work, your lordship. They’re&#160;.all wanting to shake hands with you, sir.”</p>
<p>“Oh, Lord! I wish I could get washed and shaved first. Awfully glad to see you all again, after two years’ exile in&#160;Lambeth. Been a good little show, hasn’t it?”</p>
<p>“Is he safe?”</p>
<p>Wimsey started at the agonised cry.</p>
<p>“Good Lord!’ he cried. “I forgot the gentleman in the safe. Here, fetch a car, quickly. I’ve got the great big top&#160;Moriarty of the whole bunch quietly asphyxiating at&#160;home. Here—hop in, and put the lady in too. I promised&#160;we’d get back and save him—though” (he finished the&#160;sentence in Parker’s ear) “there may be murder charges&#160;too, and I wouldn’t give much for his chance at the Old&#160;Bailey. Whack her up. He can’t last much longer shut up&#160;there. He’s the bloke you’ve been wanting, the man at the&#160;back of the Morrison case and the Hope-Wilmington case,&#160;and hundreds of others.”</p>
<p>The cold morning had turned the streets grey when they</p>
<p>drew up before the door of the house in Lambeth. Wim sey took the woman by the arm and helped her out. Th&lt;&#160;mask was off now, and showed her face, haggard an&lt;&#160;desperate, and white with fear and pain.</p>
<p>“Russian, eh?” whispered Parker in Wimsey’s car. “Something of the sort. Damn! the front door’s blowi&#160;shut, and the blighter’s got the key with him in the safe&#160;Hop through the window, will you?”</p>
<p>Parker bundled obligingly in, and in a few second; threw open the door to them. The house seemed very still&#160;Wimsey led the way to the back room, where the strong&#160;room stood. The outer door and the second door stooc&#160;propped open with chairs. The inner door faced them lik&lt;&#160;a blank green wall.</p>
<p>“Only hope he hasn’t upset the adjustment witl thumping at it,” muttered Wimsey. The anxious hand or&#160;his arm clutched feverishly. He pulled himself together&#160;forcing his tone to one of cheerful commonplace.</p>
<p>“Come on, old thing,” he said, addressing himself conversationally to the door. “Show us your paces. Oper Sesame, confound you. Open Sesame!”</p>
<p>The green door slid suddenly away into the wall. The woman sprang forward and caught in her arms the&#160;humped and senseless thing that rolled out from the safe.&#160;Its clothes were torn to ribbons, and its battered hands&#160;dripped blood.</p>
<p>“It’s all right,” said Wimsey, “it’s all right! He’ll live— to stand his trial.”</p><div>
<p>LORD PETER VIEWS THE BODY</p></div><div>
<p>THE SOLUTION</p>
<p><span style="font-style:italic;">m</span></p>
<p>OF THE CROSS-WORD PUZZLE IN « UNCLE MELEAGER’S WILL ”</p></div><div>
<p>n <span style="text-decoration:underline;">m IT? m to g </span><span style="font-style:italic;font-variant:small-caps;text-decoration:underline;">t</span><span style="text-decoration:underline;"> xrm an gra</span>y</p>
<p><span style="font-variant:small-caps;">|m! i</span></p></div><div>
<p>I</p>
<p>1</p>
<p>2</p>
<table border="1">
<tr><td style="vertical-align:bottom;">
<p>i<sup>v</sup></p></td><td style="vertical-align:bottom;">
<p>i</p></td><td style="vertical-align:bottom;">
<p>R</p></td><td style="vertical-align:bottom;">
<p>G</p></td><td style="vertical-align:bottom;">
<p>°l</p></td></tr>
<tr><td>
<p>i</p></td><td style="vertical-align:bottom;">
<p>N</p></td><td style="vertical-align:bottom;">
<p>D</p></td><td style="vertical-align:bottom;">
<p>1</p></td><td style="vertical-align:bottom;">
<p>V</p></td></tr>
</table></div><div></div><div>
<p>□□ BBelsBUIISB <span style="font-weight:bold;">□□ □□□ □ BUD&#160;</span>□□OB</p></div><div></div><div></div>
</body>
</html>