<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head><meta name="charset" content="UTF-8"/><title></title><link rel="stylesheet" href="main.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><h1><a id="bookmark0"></a>A MATTER OF TASTE</h1>
<p>“Halte-la! . . . Attention! . . . F-e!”</p>
<p>The young man in the grey suit pushed his way through the protesting porters and leapt nimbly for the footboard&#160;of the guard’s van as the Paris-Evreux express steamed&#160;out of the lnvalides. The guard, with an eye to a tip, fielded&#160;him adroitly from among the detaining hands.</p>
<p>“It is happy for monsieur that he is so agile,” he remarked. “Monsieur is in a hurry?”</p>
<p>“Somewhat. Thank you. I can get through by the corridor?”</p>
<p>“But certainly. The <span style="font-style:italic;">premieres</span> are two coaches away, beyond the luggage-van.”</p>
<p>The young man rewarded his rescuer, and made his way forward, mopping his face. As he passed the piled-up&#160;luggage, something caught his eye, and he stopped to&#160;investigate. It was a suit-case, nearly new, of expensive-looking leather, labelled conspicuously:</p>
<p>LORD PETER WIMSEY,</p>
<p>Hotel Saumon d’Or, Verneuil-sur-Eure</p>
<p>and bore witness to its itinerary thus:</p>
<p>LONDON — PARIS (Waterloo) (Gare St. Lazare)&#160;via Southampton-Havre</p>
<p>PARIS'—VERNEUIL (Ch. de Fer de l’Ouest)</p>
<p>The young man whistled, and sat down on a trunk to think it out.</p>
<p>Somewhere there had been a leakage, and they were on</p>
<p>146</p>
<p>his trail. Nor did they care who knew it. There were hundreds of people in London and Paris who would know&#160;the name of Wimsey, not counting the police of both&#160;countries. In addition to belonging to one of the oldest&#160;ducal families in England, Lord Peter had made himself&#160;conspicuous by his meddling with crime detection. A label&#160;like this was a gratuitous advertisement.</p>
<p>But the amazing thing was that the pursuers were not troubling to hide themselves from the pursued. That argued very great confidence. That he should have got into&#160;the guard’s van was, of course, an accident, but, even so,&#160;he might have seen it on the platform, or anywhere.</p>
<p>An accident? It occurred to him—not for the first time, but definitely now, and without doubt—that it was indeed&#160;an accident for them that he was here. The series of&#160;maddening delays that had held him up between London&#160;and the Invalides presented itself to him with an air of&#160;pre-arrangement. The preposterous accusation, for instance, of the woman who had accosted him in Piccadilly,&#160;and the slow process of extricating himself at Marlborough Street. It was easy to hold a man up on some&#160;trumped-up charge till an important plan had matured.&#160;Then there was the lavatory door at Waterloo, which had&#160;so ludicrously locked itself upon him. Being athletic, he&#160;had climbed over the partition, to find the attendant&#160;mysteriously absent. And, in Paris, was it by chance that&#160;he had had a deaf taxi-driver, who mistook the direction&#160;“Quai d’Orleans” for “Gare de Lyon,” and drove a mile&#160;and a half in the wrong direction before the shouts of his&#160;fare attracted his attention? They were clever, the pursuers, and circumspect. They had accurate information;&#160;they would delay him, but without taking any overt step;&#160;they knew that, if only they could keep time on their side,&#160;they needed no other ally.</p>
<p>Did they know he was on the train? If not, he still kept the advantage, for they would travel in a false security,&#160;thinking him to be left, raging and helpless, in the Invalides. He decided to make a cautious reconnaissance.</p>
<p>The first step was to change his grey suit for another of inconspicuous navy-blue cloth, which he had in his small&#160;black bag. This he did in the privacy of the toilet, substituting for his grey soft hat a large travelling-cap, which&#160;pulled well down over his eyes.</p>
<p>There was little difficulty in locating the man he was in search of. He found him seated in the inner corner of a&#160;first-class compartment, facing the engine, so that the</p>
<p>watcher could approach unseen from behind. On the rack was a handsome dressing-case, with the initials P. D. B. W.&#160;The young man was familiar with Wimsey’s narrow, beaky&#160;face, flat yellow hair, and insolent dropped eyelids. He&#160;smiled a little grimly.</p>
<p>“He is confident,” he thought, “and has regrettably made the mistake of underrating the enemy. Good! This is&#160;where I retire into a <span style="font-style:italic;">seconde</span> and keep my eyes open. The&#160;next act of this melodrama will take place, I fancy, at&#160;Dreux.”</p>
<p>It is a rule on the Chemin de Fer de l’Ouest that all Paris-Evreux trains, whether of Grande Vitesse or what&#160;Lord Peter Wimsey preferred to call Grande Paresse, shall&#160;halt for an interminable period at Dreux. The young man&#160;(now in navy-blue) watched his quarry safely into the&#160;refreshment-room, and slipped unobstrusively out of the&#160;station. In a quarter of an hour he was back—this time in a&#160;heavy motoring-coat, helmet, and goggles, at the wheel of&#160;a powerful hired Peugeot. Coming quietly on to the platform, he took up his station behind the wall of the <span style="font-style:italic;">lampis</span>-<span style="font-style:italic;">terie,</span> whence he could keep an eye on the train and the&#160;buffet door. After fifteen minutes his patience was rewarded by the sight of his man again boarding the express,&#160;dressing-case in hand. The porters slammed the doors,&#160;crying: “Next stop Verneuil!” The engine panted and&#160;groaned; the long train of grey-green carriages clanked&#160;slowly away. The motorist drew a breath of satisfaction,&#160;and, hurrying past the barrier, started up the car. He knew&#160;that he had a good eighty miles an hour under his bonnet,&#160;and there is no speed-limit in France.</p>
<p>Mon Souci, the seat of that eccentric and eremitical genius the Comte de Rueil, is situated three kilometres&#160;from Verneuil. It is a sorrowful and decayed chateau, desolate at the termination of its neglected avenue of pines.&#160;The mournful state of a nobility without an allegiance&#160;surrounds it. The stone nymphs droop greenly over their dry&#160;and mouldering fountains. An occasional peasant creaks&#160;with a single waggon-load of wood along the ill-forested&#160;glades. It has the atmosphere of sunset at all hours of the&#160;day. The woodwork is dry and gaping for lack of paint.&#160;Through the jalousies one sees the prim <span style="font-style:italic;">salon</span>, with its&#160;beautiful and faded furniture. Even the last of its ill-dressed, ill-favoured women has withered away from Mon&#160;Souci, with her in-bred, exaggerated features and her long</p>
<p>white gloves. But at the rear of the chateau a chimney smokes incessantly. It is the furnace of the laboratory, the&#160;only living and modern thing among the old and dying;&#160;the only place tended and loved, petted and spoiled, heir&#160;to the long solicitude which counts of a more light-hearted&#160;day had given to stable and kennel, portrait-gallery and&#160;ballroom. And below, in the cool cellar, lie row upon row&#160;the dusty bottles, each an enchanted glass coffin in which&#160;the Sleeping Beauty of the vine grows ever more ravishing in sleep.</p>
<p>As the Peugeot came to a standstill in the courtyard, the driver observed with considerable surprise that he was&#160;not the count’s only visitor. An immense super-Renault,&#160;like a <span style="font-style:italic;">merveilleuse</span> of the Directoire, all bonnet and no&#160;body, had been drawn so ostentatiously across the entrance as to embarrass the approach of any new-comer.&#160;Its glittering panels were embellished with a coat of arms,&#160;and the count’s elderly servant was at that moment staggering beneath the weight of two large and elaborate&#160;suit-cases, bearing in silver letters that could be read a&#160;mile away the legend: “Lord Peter Wimsey.”</p>
<p>The Peugeot driver gazed with astonishment at this display, and grinned sardonically. “Lord Peter seems&#160;rather ubiquitous in this country,” he observed to himself.&#160;Then, taking pen and paper from his bag, he busied&#160;himself with a little letter-writing. By the time that the&#160;suit-cases had been carried in, and the Renault had purred&#160;its smooth way to the outbuildings, the document was&#160;complete and enclosed in an envelope addressed to the&#160;Comte de Rueil. “The hoist with his own petard touch,”&#160;said the young man, and, stepping up to the door,&#160;presented the envelope to the manservant.</p>
<p>“I am the bearer of a letter of introduction to monsieur le comte,” he said. “Will you have the obligingness to&#160;present it to him? My name is Bredon—Death Bredon.”</p>
<p>The man bowed, and begged him to enter.</p>
<p>“If monsieur will have the goodness to seat himself in the hall for a few moments. Monsieur le comte is engaged&#160;with another gentleman, but I will lose no time in making&#160;monsieur’s arrival known.”</p>
<p>The young man sat down and waited. The windows of the hall looked out upon the entrance, and it was not long&#160;before the chateau’s sleep was disturbed by the hooting&#160;of yet another motor-horn. A station taxi-cab came noisily&#160;up the avenue. The man from the first-class carriage and&#160;the luggage labelled P.D.B.W. were deposited upon the</p>
<p>doorstep. Lord Peter Wimsey dismissed the driver and rang the bell.</p>
<p>“Now,” said Mr. Bredon, “the fun is going to begin.” He effaced himself as far as possible in the shadow of a tall&#160;<span style="font-style:italic;">armoire normande.</span></p>
<p>“Good evening,” said the new-comer to the manservant, in admirable French, “I am Lord Peter Wimsey. I arrive&#160;upon the invitation of Monsieur le comte de Rueil. Monsieur le comte is at liberty?”</p>
<p>“Milford Peter Wimsey? Pardon, monsieur, but I do not understand. Milord de Wimsey is already arrived and is&#160;with monsieur le comte at this moment.”</p>
<p>“You surprise me,” said the other, with complete imperturbability, “for certainly no one but myself has any right to that name. It seems as though some person more&#160;ingenious than honest has had the bright idea of impersonating me.”</p>
<p>The servant was clearly at a loss.</p>
<p>“Perhaps,” he suggested, “monsieur can show his <span style="font-style:italic;">pa-piers d’identite.<sup>n</sup></span></p>
<p>“Although it is somewhat unusual to produce one’s credentials on the doorstep when paying a private visit,”&#160;replied his lordship, with unaltered good humour, “I have&#160;not the slightest objection. Here is my passport, here is a&#160;<span style="font-style:italic;">permis de sejour</span> granted to me in Paris, here my visiting-card, and here a quantity of correspondence addressed to&#160;me at the Hotel Meurice, Paris, at my flat in Piccadilly,&#160;London, at the Marlborough Club, London, and at my&#160;brother’s house at King’s Denver. Is that sufficiently in&#160;order?”</p>
<p>The servant perused the documents carefully, appearing particularly impressed by the <span style="font-style:italic;">permis de sejour.</span></p>
<p>“It appears there is some mistake,” he murmured dubiously; “if monsieur will follow me, I will acquaint monsieur le comte.”</p>
<p>They disappeared through the folding doors at the back of the hall, and Bredon was left alone.</p>
<p>“Quite a little boom in Richmonds to-day,” he observed, “each of us more unscrupulous than the last. The occasion obviously calls for a refined subtlety of&#160;method.”</p>
<p>After what he judged to be a hectic ten minutes in the count’s library, the servant reappeared, searching for&#160;him.</p>
<p>“Monsieur le comte’s compliments, and would monsieur</p>
<p>step this way?”</p>
<p>Bredon entered the room with a jaunty step. He had created for himself the mastery of this situation. The&#160;count, a thin, elderly man, his fingers deeply stained with&#160;chemicals, sat, with a perturbed expression, at his desk. In&#160;two arm-chairs sat the two Wimseys. Bredon noted that,&#160;while the Wimsey he had seen in the train (whom he&#160;mentally named Peter I) retained his unruffled smile,&#160;Peter II (he of the Renault) had the flushed and indignant&#160;air of an Englishman affronted. The two men were superficially alike—both fair, lean, and long-nosed, with the&#160;nondescript, inelastic face which predominates in any assembly of well-bred Anglo-Saxons.</p>
<p>“Mr. Bredon,” said the count, “I am charmed to have the pleasure of making your acquaintance, and regret that&#160;I must at once call upon you for a service as singular as it&#160;is important. You have presented to me a letter of introduction from your cousin, Lord Peter Wimsey. Will you&#160;now be good enough to inform me which of these gentlemen he is?”</p>
<p>Bredon let his glance pass slowly from the one claimant to the other, meditating what answer would best serve his&#160;own ends. One, at any rate, of the men in this room was a&#160;formidable intellect, trained in the detection of imposture.</p>
<p>“Well?” said Peter II. “Are you going to acknowledge me, Bredon?”</p>
<p>Peter I extracted a cigarette from a silver case. “Your confederate does not seem very well up in his part,” he&#160;remarked, with a quiet smile at Peter H.</p>
<p>“Monsieur le comte,” said Bredon, “I regret extremely that I cannot assist you in the matter. My acquaintance&#160;with my cousin, like your own, has been made and&#160;maintained entirely through correspondence on a subject&#160;of common interest. My profession,” he added, “has&#160;made me unpopular with my family.”</p>
<p>There was a very slight sigh of relief somewhere. The false Wimsey—whichever he was—had gained a respite.&#160;Bredon smiled.</p>
<p>“An excellent move, Mr. Bredon,” said Peter I, “but it</p>
<p>will hardly explain- Allow me.” He took the letter</p>
<p>from the count’s hestitating hand. “It will hardly explain the fact that the ink of this letter of recommendation,&#160;dated three weeks ago, is even now scarcely dry—though&#160;I congratulate you on the very plausible imitation of my&#160;handwriting.”</p>
<p>“If <span style="font-style:italic;">you</span> can forge my handwriting,” said Peter II, “so</p>
<p>can this Mr. Bredon.” He read the letter aloud over his double’s shoulder.</p>
<p>“ ‘Monsieur le comte—I have the honour to present to you my friend and cousin, Mr. Death Bredon, who, I&#160;understand, is to be travelling in your part of France next&#160;month. He is very anxious to view your interesting library.&#160;Although a journalist by profession, he really knows something about books.* I am delighted to learn for the first&#160;time that I have such a cousin. An interviewer’s trick, I&#160;fancy, monsieur le comte. Fleet Street appears well informed about our family names. Possibly it is equally well&#160;informed about the object of my visit to Mon Souci?”</p>
<p>“If,” said Bredon boldly, “you refer to the acquisition of the de Rueil formula for poison gas for the British Government, I can answer for my own knowledge, though&#160;possibly the rest of Fleet Street is less completely enlightened.” He weighed his words carefully now, warned by his&#160;slip. The sharp eyes and detective ability of Peter I&#160;alarmed him far more than the caustic tongue of Peter&#160;II.</p>
<p>The count uttered an exclamation of dismay.</p>
<p>“Gentlemen,” he said, “one thing is obvious—that there has been somewhere a disastrous leakage of information.&#160;Which of you is the Lord Peter Wimsey to whom I should&#160;entrust the formula I do not know. Both of you are&#160;supplied with papers of identity; both appear completely&#160;instructed in this matter; both of your handwritings correspond with the letters I have previously received from&#160;Lord Peter, and both of you have offered me the sum&#160;agreed upon in Bank of England notes. In addition, this&#160;third gentleman arrives endowed with an equal facility in&#160;handwritings, an introductory letter surrounded by most&#160;suspicious circumstances, and a degree of acquaintance&#160;with this whole matter which alarms me. I can see but one&#160;solution. All of you must remain here at the chateau&#160;while I send to England for some elucidation of this&#160;mystery. To the genuine Lord Peter I offer my apologies,&#160;and assure him that I will endeavour to make his stay as&#160;agreeable as possible. Will this satisfy you? It will? I am&#160;delighted to hear it. My servants will show you to your&#160;bedrooms, and dinner will be at half-past seven.”</p>
<p>“It is delightful to think,” said Mr. Bredon, as he fingered his glass and passed it before his nostrils with the&#160;air of a connoisseur, “that whichever of these gentlemen&#160;has the right to the name which he assumes is assured</p>
<p>to-night of a truly Olympian satisfaction.” His impudence had returned to him, and he challenged the company with&#160;an air. “Your cellars, monsieur le comte, are as well&#160;known among men endowed with a palate as your talents&#160;among men of science. No eloquence could say more.”</p>
<p>The two Lord Peters murmured assent.</p>
<p>“I am the more pleased by your commendation,” said the count, “that it suggests to me a little test which, with&#160;your kind co-operation, will, I think, assist us very much&#160;in determining which of you gentleman is Lord Peter&#160;Wimsey and which his talented impersonator. Is it not&#160;matter of common notoriety that Lord Peter has a palate&#160;for wine almost unequalled in Europe?”</p>
<p>“You flatter me, monsieur le comte,” said Peter II modestly.</p>
<p>“I wouldn’t like to say unequalled,” said Peter I, chiming in like a well-trained duet; “let’s call it fair to middling. Less liable to misconstruction and all that.”</p>
<p>“Your lordship does yourself an injustice,” said Bredon, addressing both men with impartial deference. “The bet&#160;which you won from Mr. Frederick Arbuthnot at the&#160;Egotists’ Club, when he challenged you to name the vintage years of seventeen wines blindfold, received its due&#160;prominence in the <span style="font-style:italic;">Evening Wire ”</span></p>
<p>“I was in extra form that night,” said Peter I.</p>
<p>“A fluke,” laughed Peter II.</p>
<p>“The test I propose, gentlemen, is on similar lines,” pursued the count, “though somewhat less strenuous.&#160;There are six courses ordered for dinner to-night. With&#160;each we will drink a different wine, which my butler shall&#160;bring in with the label concealed. You shall each in turn&#160;give me your opinion upon the vintage. By this means we&#160;shall perhaps arrive at something, since the most brilliant&#160;forger—of whom I gather I have at least two at my table&#160;to-night—can scarcely forge a palate for wine. If too&#160;hazardous a mixture of wines should produce a temporary&#160;incommodity in the morning, you will, I feel sure, suffer it&#160;gladly for this once in the cause of truth.”</p>
<p>The two Wimseys bowed.</p>
<p><span style="font-style:italic;">“In vino veritas,”</span> said Mr. Bredon, with a laugh. He at least was well seasoned and foresaw opportunities for&#160;himself.</p>
<p>“Accident, and my butler, having placed you at my right hand, monsieur,” went on the count, addressing&#160;Peter I, “I will ask you to begin by pronouncing, as</p>
<p>accurately as may be, upon the wine which you have just drunk.”</p>
<p>“That is scarcely a searching ordeal,” said the other, with a smile. “I can say definitely that it is a very pleasant&#160;and well-matured Chablis Moutonne; and, since ten years&#160;is an excellant age for a Chablis—a real Chablis—I should&#160;vote for 1916, which was perhaps the best of the war&#160;vintages in that district.”</p>
<p>“Have you anything to add to that opinion, monsieur?” enquired the count, deferentially, of Peter II.</p>
<p>“I wouldn’t like to be dogmatic to a year or so,” said that gentleman, critically, “but if I must commit myself,&#160;don’t you know, I should say 1915—decidedly 1915.”</p>
<p>The count bowed, and turned to Bredon.</p>
<p>“Perhaps you, too, monsieur, would be interested to give an opinion,” he suggested, with the exquisite courtesy&#160;always shown to the plain man in the society of experts.</p>
<p>“I’d rather not set a standard which I might not be able to live up to,” replied Bredon, a little maliciously. “I know&#160;that it is 1915, for I happened to see the label.”</p>
<p>Peter II looked a little disconcerted.</p>
<p>“We will arrange matters better in future,” said the count. “Pardon me.” He stepped apart for a few moments’ conference with the butler, who presently advanced&#160;to remove the oysters and bring in the soup.</p>
<p>The next candidate for attention arrived swathed to the lip in damask.</p>
<p>“It is your turn to speak first, monsieur,” said the count to Peter II. “Permit me to offer you an olive to cleanse&#160;the palate. No haste, I beg. Even for the most excellent&#160;political ends, good wine must not be used with disrespect.”</p>
<p>The rebuke was not unnecessary, for, after a preliminary sip, Peter II had taken a deep draught of the heady white richness. Under Peter I’s quizzical eye he wilted quite&#160;visibly.</p>
<p>“It is—it is Sauteme,” he began, and stopped. Then, gathering encouragement from Bredon’s smile, he said,&#160;with more aplomb, “Chateau Yquem, 1911—ah! the&#160;queen of white wines, sir, as what’s-his-name says.” He&#160;drained his glass defiantly.</p>
<p>The count’s face was a study as he slowly detached his fascinated gaze from Peter II to fix it on Peter I.</p>
<p>“If I had to be impersonated by somebody,” murmured the latter gently, “it would have been more flattering to&#160;have had it undertaken by a person to whom all white</p>
<p>wines were <span style="font-style:italic;">not</span> alike. Well, now, sir, this admirable vintage is, of course, a Montrachet of—let me see”—he rolled the wine delicately upon his tongue—“of 1911. And&#160;a very attractive wine it is, though, with all due deference to&#160;yourself, monsieur le comte, I feel that it is perhaps&#160;slightly too sweet to occupy its present place in the menu.&#160;True, with this excellent <span style="font-style:italic;">consomme mar mite,</span> a sweetish&#160;wine is not altogether out of place, but, in my own&#160;humble opinion, it would have shown to better advantage&#160;with the <span style="font-style:italic;">confitures ”</span></p>
<p>“There, now,” said Bredon innocently, “it just shows how one may be misled. Had not I had the advantage of&#160;Lord Peter’s expert opinion—for certainly nobody who&#160;could mistake Montrachet for Sauterne has any claim to&#160;the name of Wimsey—I should have pronounced this to&#160;be, not the Montrachet-Aine, but the Chevalier-Montra-chet of the same year, which is a trifle sweeter. But no&#160;doubt, as your lordship says, drinking it with the soup&#160;has caused it to appear sweeter to me than it actually is.”&#160;The count looked sharply at him, but made no comment.</p>
<p>“Have another olive,” said Peter I kindly. “You can’t judge wine if your mind is on other flavours.”</p>
<p>“Thanks frightfully,” said Bredon. “And that reminds</p>
<p>me-” He launched into a rather pointless story about</p>
<p>olives, which lasted out the soup and bridged the interval to the entrance of an exquisitely cooked sole.</p>
<p>The count’s eye followed the pale amber wine rather thoughtfully as it trilled into the glasses. Bredon raised his&#160;in the approved manner to his nostrils, and his face&#160;flushed a little. With the first sip he turned excitedly to his&#160;host.</p>
<p>“Good God, sir-” he began.</p>
<p>The lifted hand cautioned him to silence.</p>
<p>Peter I sipped, inhaled, sipped again, and his brows clouded. Peter II had by this time apparently abandoned&#160;his pretensions. He drank thirstily, with a beaming smile&#160;and a lessening hold upon reality.</p>
<p>“Eh bien, monsieur?” enquired the count gently.</p>
<p>“This,” said Peter I, “is certainly hock, and the noblest hock I have ever tasted, but I must admit that for the&#160;moment I cannot precisely place it.”</p>
<p>“No?” said Bredon. His voice was like bean-honey now, sweet and harsh together. “Nor the other gentleman? And&#160;yet I fancy I could place it within a couple of miles,&#160;though it is a wine I had hardly looked to find in a French</p>
<p>cellar at this time. It is hock, as your lordship says, and at that it is Johannisberger. Not the plebeian cousin, but the&#160;<span style="font-style:italic;">echter</span> Schloss Johannisberger from the castle vineyard&#160;itself. Your lordship must have missed it (to your great&#160;loss) during the war years. My father laid some down the&#160;year before he died, but it appears that the ducal cellars&#160;at Denver were less well furnished.”</p>
<p>“I must set about remedying the omission,” said the remaining Peter, with determination.</p>
<p>The <span style="font-style:italic;">poulet</span> was served to the accompaniment of an argument over the Lafitte, his lordship placing it at 1878,&#160;Bredon maintaining it to be a relic of the glorious ’seventy-fives, slightly over-matured, but both agreeing as to its&#160;great age and noble pedigree.</p>
<p>As to the Clos-Vougeot, on the other hand, there was complete agreement; after a tentative suggestion of 1915,&#160;it was pronounced finally by Peter I to belong to the&#160;equally admirable though slightly lighter 1911 crop. The&#160;<span style="font-style:italic;">pre-sale</span> was removed amid general applause, and the&#160;dessert was brought in.</p>
<p>“Is it necessary,” asked Peter I, with a slight smile in the direction of Peter II—now happily murmuring, “Damn&#160;good wine, damn good dinner, damn good show”—“is it&#160;necessary to prolong this farce any further?”</p>
<p>“Your lordship will not, surely, refuse to proceed with the discussion?” cried the count.</p>
<p>“The point is sufficiently made, I fancy.”</p>
<p>“But no one will surely ever refuse to discuss wine,” said Bredon, “least of all your lordship, who is so great an&#160;authority.”</p>
<p>“Not on this,” said the other. “Frankly, it is a wine I do not care about. It is sweet and coarse, qualities that would&#160;damn any wine in the eyes—the mouth, rather—of a&#160;connoisseur. Did your excellent father have this laid down&#160;also, Mr. Bredon?”</p>
<p>Bredon shook his head.</p>
<p>“No,” he said, “no. Genuine Imperial Tokay is beyond the opportunities of Grub Street, I fear. Though I agree&#160;with you that it is horribly overrated—with all due deference to yourself, monsieur le comte ”&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="font-style:italic;">0</span></p>
<p>“In that case,” said the count, “we will pass at once to the liqueur. I admit that I had thought of puzzling these&#160;gentlemen with the local product, but, since one competitor seems to have scratched, it shall be brandy—the only&#160;fitting close to a good wine-list.”</p>
<p>In a slightly embarrassing silence the huge, round-</p>
<p>bellied balloon glasses were set upon the table, and the few precious drops poured gently into each and set lightly&#160;swinging to release the bouquet.</p>
<p>“This,” said Peter I, charmed again into amiability, “is, indeed, a wonderful old French brandy. Half a century&#160;old, I suppose.”</p>
<p>“Your lordship’s praise lacks warmth,” replied Bredon. “This is <span style="font-style:italic;">the</span> brandy—the brandy of brandies—the superb—&#160;the incomparable—the true Napoleon. It should be&#160;honoured like the emperor it is.”</p>
<p>He rose to his feet, his napkin in his hand.</p>
<p>“Sir,” said the count, turning to him, “I have on my right a most admirable judge of wine, but you are unique.”&#160;He motioned to Pierre, who solemnly brought forward the empty bottles, unswathed now, from the humble&#160;Chablis to the stately Napoleon, with the imperial seal&#160;blown in the glass. “Every time you have been correct as&#160;to growth and year. There cannot be six men in the world&#160;with such a palate as yours, and I thought that but one of&#160;them was an Englishman. Will you not favour us, this&#160;time, with your real name?”</p>
<p>“It doesn’t matter what his name is,” said Peter I. He rose. “Put up your hands all of you. Count, the formula!”&#160;Bredon’s hands came up with a jerk, still clutching the&#160;napkin. The white folds spurted flame as his shot struck&#160;the other’s revolver cleanly between trigger and barrel,&#160;exploding the charge, to the extreme detriment of the&#160;glass chandelier. Peter I stood shaking his paralysed hand&#160;and cursing.</p>
<p>Bredon kept him covered while he cocked a wary eye at Peter II, who, his rosy visions scattered by the report,&#160;seemed struggling back to aggressiveness.</p>
<p>“Since the entertainment appears to be taking a lively turn,” observed Brdon, “perhaps you would be so good,&#160;count, as to search these gentlemen for further firearms.&#160;Thank you. Now, why should we not all sit down again&#160;and pass the bottle round?”</p>
<p>“You<span style="font-style:italic;">—you</span> are-” growled Peter I.</p>
<p>“Oh, my name is Bredon all right,” said the young man cheerfully. “I loathe aliases. Like another fellow’s clothes,&#160;you know—never seem quite to fit. Peter Death Bredon&#160;Wimsey—a bit lengthy and all that, but handy when taken&#160;in instalments. I’ve got a passport and all those things,&#160;too, but I didn’t offer them, as their reputation here seems&#160;a little blown upon, so to speak. As regards the formula, I&#160;think I’d better give you my personal cheque for it—all</p>
<p>sorts of people seem able to go about flourishing Bank of England notes. Personally, I think all this secret diplomacy&#160;work is a mistake, but that’s the War Office's pigeon. I&#160;suppose we all brought similar credentials. Yes, I thought&#160;so. Some bright person seems to have sold himself very&#160;successfully in two places at once. But you two must have&#160;been having a lively time, each thinking the other was me.”</p>
<p>“My lord,” said the count heavily, “these two men are, or were, Englishmen, I suppose. I do not care to know&#160;what Governments have purchased their treachery. But&#160;where they stand, I, alas! stand too. To our venal and&#160;corrupt Republic I, as a Royalist, acknowledge no allegiance. But it is in my heart that I have agreed to sell my&#160;country to England because of my poverty. Go back to&#160;your War Office and say I will not give you the formula.&#160;If war should come between our countries—which may&#160;God avert!—I will be found on the side of France. That,&#160;my lord, is my last word.”</p>
<p>Wimsey bowed.</p>
<p>“Sir,” he said, “it appears that my mission has, after all, failed. I am glad of it. This trafficking in destruction is a&#160;dirty kind of business after all. Let us shut the door upon&#160;these two, who are neither flesh nor fowl, and finish the&#160;brandy in the library.”</p>
<p>THE LEARNED ADVENTURE OF</p>
</body>
</html>