<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head><meta name="charset" content="UTF-8"/><title></title><link rel="stylesheet" href="main.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><h1><a id="bookmark0"></a>THE FOOTSTEPS THAT RAN</h1>
<p>Mr. Bunter withdrew his head from beneath the focusing cloth.&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;'&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<sub>#&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;#</sub></p>
<p>“I fancy that will be quite adequate, sir,” he said deferentially, “unless there are any further patients, if I may call them so, which you would wish put on record.”</p>
<p>“Not to-day,” replied the doctor. He took the last stricken rat gently from the table, and replaced it on its&#160;cage with an air of satisfaction. “Perhaps on Wednesday,&#160;if Lord Peter can kindly spare your services once&#160;again-”</p>
<p>“What’s that?” murmured his lordship, withdrawing his long nose from the investigation of a number of unattractive-looking glass jars. “Nice old dog,” he added vaguely.&#160;“Wags his tail when you mention his name, what? Are&#160;these monkey-glands, Hartman, or a south-west elevation&#160;of Cleopatra’s duodenum?”</p>
<p>“You don’t know anything, do you?” said the young physician, laughing. “No use playing your bally-fool-with-an-eyeglass tricks on me, Wimsey. I’m up to them. I was&#160;saying to Bunter that I’d be no end grateful if you’d let&#160;him turn up again three days hence to register the progress of the specimens—always supposing they do progress,&#160;that is.”</p>
<p>“Why ask, dear old thing?” said his lordship. “Always a pleasure to assist a fellow-sleuth, don’t you know. Trackin’&#160;down murderers—all in the same way of business and&#160;all that. All finished? Good egg! By the way, if you don’t&#160;have that cage mended you’ll lose one of your patients—&#160;Number 5. The last wire but one is workin’ loose—assisted by the intelligent occupant. Jolly little beasts, ain’t&#160;they? No need of dentists—wish I was a rat—wire much&#160;better for the nerves than that fizzlin’ drill.”</p>
<p>Dr. Hartman uttered a little exclamation.</p>
<p>“How in the world did you notice that, Wimsey? I didn’t think you’d even looked at the cage.”</p>
<p>“Built noticin’—improved by practice,” said Lord Peter quietly. “Anythin’ wrong leaves a kind of impression on&#160;the eye; brain trots along afterwards with the warnin’. I&#160;saw that when we came in. Only just grasped it. Can’t say&#160;my mind was glued on the matter. Shows the victim’s&#160;improvin’, anyhow. All serene, Bunter?”</p>
<p>“Everything perfectly satisfactory, I trust, my lord,” replied the manservant. He had packed up his camera and&#160;plates, and was quietly restoring order in the little laboratory, whose fittings—compact as those of an ocean liner—&#160;had been disarranged for the experiment.</p>
<p>“Well,” said the doctor, “I am enormously obliged to you, Lord Peter, and to Bunter too. I am hoping for a&#160;great result from these experiments, and you cannot imagine how valuable an assistance it will be to me to have a&#160;really good series of photographs. I can’t afford this sort&#160;of thing—yet,” he added, his rather haggard young face&#160;, wistful as he looked at the great camera, “and I can’t do&#160;the work at the hospital. There’s no time; I’ve got to be&#160;here. A struggling G.P. can’t afford to let his practice go,&#160;even in Bloomsbury. There are times when even a half-crown visit makes all the difference between making both&#160;ends meet and having an ugly hiatus.”</p>
<p>“As Mr. Micawber said,” replied Wimsey, “ ‘Income twenty pounds, expenditure nineteen, nineteen, six—&#160;result: happiness; expenditure twenty pounds, ought, six—&#160;result: misery.* Don’t prostrate yourself in gratitude, old&#160;bean; nothin’ Bunter loves like messin’ round with pyro&#160;and hyposulphite. Keeps his hand in. All kinds of practice&#160;welcome. Finger-paints and process plates spell seventh&#160;what-you-may-call-it of bliss, but focal-plane work on&#160;scurvy-ridden rodents (good phrase!) acceptable if no&#160;crime forthcoming. Crimes have been rather short lately.&#160;Been eatin* our heads off, haven’t we, Bunter? Don’t know&#160;what’s come over London. I’ve taken to prying into my&#160;neighbour’s affairs to keep from goin’ stale. Frightened the&#160;postman into a fit the other day by askin’ him how his&#160;young lady at Croydon was. He’s a married man, livin’ in&#160;Great Ormond Street.”</p>
<p>“How did you know?”</p>
<p>“Well, I didn’t really. But he lives just opposite to a friend of mine—Inspector Parker; and his wife—not&#160;Parker’s; he’s unmarried; the postman’s, I mean—asked&#160;Parker the other day whether the flyin’ shows at Croydon</p>
<p>went on all night. Parker, bein’ flummoxed, said No, without thinkin*. Bit of a give-away, what? Thought I’d&#160;give the poor devil a word in season, don’t you know.&#160;Uncommonly thoughtless of Parker.”</p>
<p>The doctor laughed. “You’ll stay to lunch, won’t you?”, he said. “Only cold meat and salad, I’m afraid. My woman won’t come Sundays. Have to answer my own door.&#160;Deuced unprofessional, I’m afraid, but it can’t be&#160;helped.”</p>
<p>“Pleasure,” said Wimsey, as they emerged from the laboratory and entered the dark little flat by the back&#160;door. “Did you build this place on?”</p>
<p>“No,” said Hartman; “the last tenant did that. He was an artist. That’s why I took the place. It comes in very&#160;useful, ramshackle as it is, though the glass roof is a bit&#160;sweltering on a hot day like this. Still, I had to have&#160;something on the ground floor, cheap, and it’ll do till times&#160;get better.”</p>
<p>“Till your vitamin experiments make you famous, eh?” said Peter cheerfully. “You’re goin’ to be the cornin’ man,&#160;you know. Feel it in my bones. Uncommonly neat little&#160;kitchen you’ve got, anyhow.”</p>
<p>“It does,” said the doctor. “The lab makes it a bit gloomy, but the woman’s only here in the daytime.”</p>
<p>He led the way into a narrow little dining-room, where the table was laid for a cold lunch. The one window at the&#160;end farthest from the kitchen looked out into Great James&#160;Street. The room was little more than a passage, and full&#160;of doors—the kitchen door, a door in the adjacent wall&#160;leading into the entrance-hall, and a third on the opposite&#160;side, through which his visitor caught a glimpse of a moderate-sized consulting-room.</p>
<p>Lord Peter Wimsey and his host sat down to table, and the doctor expressed a hope that Mr. Bunter would sit&#160;down with them. That correct person, however, deprecated any such suggestion.</p>
<p>“If I might venture to indicate my own preference, sir,” he said, “it would be to wait upon you and his lordship in&#160;the usual manner.”</p>
<p>“It’s no use,” said Wimsey. “Bunter likes me to know my place. Terrorisin’ sort of man, Bunter. Can’t call my&#160;soul my own. Carry on, Bunter; we wouldn’t presume for&#160;the world.”</p>
<p>Mr. Bunter handed the salad, and poured out the water with a grave decency appropriate to a crusted old tawny&#160;port.</p>
<p>It was a Sunday afternoon in that halcyon summer of 1921. The sordid little street was almost empty. The&#160;ice-cream man alone seemed thriving and active. He&#160;leaned luxuriously on the green post at the corner, in the&#160;intervals of driving a busy trade. Bloomsbury’s swarm of&#160;able-bodied and able-voiced infants was still; presumably&#160;within-doors, eating steamy Sunday dinners inappropriate&#160;to the tropical weather. The only disturbing sounds came&#160;from the flat above, where heavy footsteps passed rapidly&#160;to and fro.</p>
<p>“Who’s the merry-and-bright bloke above?” enquired Lord Peter presently. “Not an early riser/ I take it. Not&#160;that anybody is on a Sunday morain’. Why an inscrutable&#160;Providence ever inflicted such a ghastly day on people&#160;livin’ in town I can’t imagine. I ought to be in the&#160;country, but I’ve got to meet a friend at Victoria this&#160;afternoon. Such a day to choose.... Who’s the lady? Wife&#160;or accomplished friend? Gather she takes a properly submissive view of woman’s duties in the home, either way.&#160;That’s the bedroom overhead, I take it.”</p>
<p>Hartman looked at Lord Peter in some surprise.</p>
<p>“ ’Scuse my beastly inquisitiveness, old thing,” said Wimsey. “Bad habit. Not my business.”</p>
<p>“How did you-?”</p>
<p>“Guesswork,” said Lord Peter, with disarming frankness. “I heard the squawk of an iron bedstead on the ceiling and a heavy fellow get out with a bump, but it may&#160;quite well be a couch or something. Anyway, he’s been&#160;potterin’ about in his stocking feet over these few feet of&#160;floor for the last half-hour, while the woman has been&#160;clatterin’ to and fro, in and out of the kitchen and away&#160;into the sittin’-room, with her high heels on, ever since&#160;we’ve been here. Hence deduction as to domestic habits of&#160;the first-floor tenants.”</p>
<p>“I thought,” said the doctor, with an aggrieved expression, “you’d been listening to my valuable exposition of the beneficial effects of Vitamin B, and Lind’s treatment&#160;of scurvy with fresh lemons in 1755.”</p>
<p>“I was listenin’,” agreed Lord Peter hastily, “but I heard the footsteps as well. Fellow’s toddled into the kitchen—&#160;only wanted matches, though; he’s gone off into the sit-tin’-room and left her to carry on the good work. What&#160;was I sayin*? Oh, yes! You see, as I was sayin’ before, one&#160;hears a thing or sees it without knowin’ or thinkin’ about&#160;it. Then afterwards one starts meditatin’, and it all comes&#160;back, and one sorts out one’s impressions. Like those</p>
<p>plates of Burner’s. Picture’s all there, 1—la—what’s the</p>
<p>word I want, Bunter?”</p>
<p>“Latent, my lord.”</p>
<p>“That’s it. My right-hand man, Bunter; couldn’t do a thing without him. The picture’s latent till you put the&#160;developer on. Same with the brain. No mystery. Little&#160;grey books all my respected grandmother! Little grey&#160;matter’s all you want to remember things with. As a&#160;matter of curiosity, was I right about those people&#160;above?”</p>
<p>“Perfectly. The man’s a gas-company’s inspector. A bit surly, but devoted (after his own fashion) to his wife. I&#160;mean, he doesn’t mind hulking in bed on a Sunday morning and letting her do the chores, but he spends all the&#160;money he can spare on giving her pretty hats and fur&#160;coats and what not. They’ve only been married about six&#160;months. I was called in to her when she had a touch of&#160;’flu in the spring, and he was almost off his head with&#160;anxiety. -She’s a lovely little woman, I must say—Italian.&#160;He picked her up in some eating-place in Soho, I believe.&#160;Glorious dark hair and eyes: Venus sort of figure; proper&#160;contours in all the right places; good skin—all that sort of&#160;thing. She was a bit of a draw to that restaurant while she&#160;was there, I fancy. Lively. She had an old admirer round&#160;here one day—awkward little Italian fellow, with a knife—&#160;active as a monkey. Might have been unpleasant, but I&#160;happened to be on the spot, and her husband came along.&#160;People are always laying one another out in these streets.&#160;Good for business, of course, but one gets tired of tying&#160;up broken heads and slits in the jugular. Still, I suppose&#160;the girl can’t help being attractive, though I don’t say she’s&#160;what you might call stand-offish in her manner. She’s&#160;sincerely fond of Brotherton, I think, though—that’s his&#160;name.”</p>
<p>Wimsey nodded inattentively. “I suppose life is a bit monotonous here,” he said.</p>
<p>“Professionally, yes. Births and drunks and wife-beatings are pretty common. And all the usual ailments, of course. Just at present I’m living on infant diarrhoea&#160;chiefly—bound to, this hot weather, you know. With the&#160;autumn, ’flu and bronchitis set in. I may get an occasional&#160;pneumonia. Legs, of course, and varicose veins—God!”&#160;cried the doctor explosively, “if only I could get away and&#160;do my experiments!”</p>
<p>“Ah!” said Peter, “where’s that eccentric old millionaire with a mysterious disease, who always figures in the nov-</p>
<p>els? A lightning diagnosis—a miraculous cure—‘God bless you, doctor; here are five thousand pounds’—Harley&#160;Street—”</p>
<p>“That sort doesn’t live in Bloomsbury,” said the doctor.</p>
<p>“It must be fascinatin’, diagnosin’ things,” said Peter thoughtfully. “How d’you do it? I mean, is there a regular&#160;set of symptoms for each disease, like callin’ a club to&#160;show you want your partner to go no trumps? You don’t&#160;just say: This fellow’s got a pimple on his nose, therefore&#160;he has fatty degeneration of the heart-”</p>
<p>“I hope not,” said the doctor drily.</p>
<p>“Or is it more like gettin’ a clue to a crime?” went on Peter. “You see somethin’—a room, or a body, say, all&#160;knocked about anyhow, and there’s a damn sight of symptoms of somethin’ wrong, and you’ve got just to pick out&#160;the ones which tell the story?”</p>
<p>“That’s more like it,” said Dr. Hartman. “Some symptoms are significant in themselves—like the condition&#160;of the gums in scurvy, let us say—others in conjunction&#160;with-”</p>
<p>He broke off, and both sprang to their feet as a shrill scream sounded suddenly from the flat above, followed by&#160;a heavy thud. A man’s voice cried out lamentably; feet&#160;ran violently to and fro; then, as the doctor and his guests&#160;stood frozen in consternation, came the man himself—&#160;falling down the stairs in his haste, hammering at Hartman’s door.</p>
<p>“Help! Help! Let me in! My wife! He’s murdered her!”&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;*&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;.&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;-</p>
<p>They ran hastily to the door and let him in. He was a big, fair man, in his shirt-sleeves and stockings. His hair&#160;stood up, and his face was set in bewildered misery.</p>
<p>“She is dead—dead. He was her lover,” he groaned. “Come and look—take her away—Doctor! I have lost my&#160;wife! My Maddalena—” He paused, looked wildly for a&#160;moment, and then said hoarsely, “Someone’s been in—&#160;somehow—stabbed her—murdered her. I’ll have the law&#160;on him, doctor. Come quickly—she was cooking the&#160;chicken for my dinner-Ah-h-h!”</p>
<p>He gave a long, hysterical shriek, which ended in a hiccupping laugh. The doctor took him roughly by the&#160;arm and shook him. “Pull yourself together, Mr. Brother-ton,” he said sharply. “Perhaps she is only hurt. Stand out&#160;of the way!”</p>
<p>“Only hurt?” said the man, sitting heavily down on the nearest chair. “No—no—she is dead—little Maddalena</p>
<p>Oh, my God!”</p>
<p>Dr. Hartman had snatched a roll of bandages and a few surgical appliances from the consulting-room, and he ran&#160;upstairs, followed closely by Lord Peter. Bunter remained&#160;for a few moments to combat hysterics with cold water.&#160;Then he stepped across to the dining-room window and&#160;shouted.</p>
<p>“Well, wot is it?” cried a voice from the street.</p>
<p>“Would you be so kind as to step in here a minute, officer?” said Mr. Bunter. “There’s been murder done.”</p>
<p>When Brotherton and Bunter arrived upstairs with the constable, they found Dr. Hartman and Lord Peter in the&#160;little kitchen. The doctor was kneeling beside the woman’s&#160;body. At their entrance he looked up, and shook his&#160;head.</p>
<p>“Death instantaneous,” he said. “Clean through the heart. Poor child. She cannot have suffered at all. Oh,&#160;constable, it is very fortunate you are here. Murder&#160;appears to have been done—though I’m afraid the man&#160;has escaped. Probably Mr. Brotherton can give us some&#160;help. He was in the flat at the time.”</p>
<p>The man bad sunk down on a chair, and was gazing at the body with a face from which all meaning seemed to&#160;have been struck out. The policeman produced a notebook.</p>
<p>“Now, sir,” he said, “don’t let’s waste any time. Sooner we can get to work the more likely we are to catch our&#160;man. Now, you was ’ere at the time, was you?”</p>
<p>Brotherton stared a moment, then, making a violent effort, he answered steadily:</p>
<p>“I was in the sitting-room, smoking and reading the paper. My—<span style="font-style:italic;">she</span>—was getting the dinner ready in here. I&#160;heard her give a scream, and I rushed in and found her&#160;lying on the floor. She didn’t have time to say anything.&#160;When I found she was dead, I rushed to the window, and&#160;saw the fellow scrambling away over the glass roof there.</p>
<p>I yelled at him, but he disappeared. Then I ran down-”</p>
<p>“ ’Arf a mo’,” said the policeman. “Now, see ’ere, sir, didn’t you think to go after ’im at once?”</p>
<p>“My first thought was for her,” said the man. “I thought maybe she wasn’t dead. I tried to&quot; bring her&#160;round-” His speech ended in a groan.</p>
<p>“You say he came in through the window,” said the policeman.</p>
<p>“I beg your pardon, officer,” interrupted Lord Peter, who had been apparently making a mental inventory of&#160;the contents of the kitchen. “Mr. Brotherton suggested&#160;that the man went <span style="font-style:italic;">out</span> through the window. It’s better to&#160;be accurate.”</p>
<p>“It’s the same thing,” said the doctor. “It’s the only way he could have come in. These flats are all alike. The&#160;staircase door leads into the sitting-room, and Mr. Brotherton was there, so the man couldn’t have come that&#160;way.”</p>
<p>“And,” said Peter, “he didn’t get in through the bedroom window, or we should have seen him. We were in the room below. Unless, indeed, he let himself down from&#160;the roof. Was the door between the bedroom and the&#160;sitting-room open?” he asked suddenly, turning to Brotherton.</p>
<p>The man hesitated a moment. “Yes,” he said finally. “Yes, I’m sure it was.”</p>
<p>“Could you have seen the man if he had come through * the bedroom window?”</p>
<p>“I couldn’t have helped seeing him.”</p>
<p>“Come, come, sir,” said the policeman, with some irritation, “better let <span style="font-style:italic;">me</span> ask the questions. Stands to reason the fellow wouldn’t get in through the bedroom window in&#160;full view of the street.”</p>
<p>“How clever of you to think of that,” said Wimsey. “Of course not. Never occurred to me. Then it must have been&#160;this window, as you say.”</p>
<p>“And, what’s more, here’s his marks on the windowsill,” said the constable triumphantly, pointing to some blurred traces among the London soot. “That’s right.&#160;Down he goes by that drain-pipe, over the glass roof down&#160;there—what’s that the roof of?”</p>
<p>“My laboratory,” said the doctor. “Heavens! to think</p>
<p>that while we were there at dinner this murdering villain— _»</p>
<p>“Quite so, sir,” agreed the constable. “Well, he’d get away over the wall into the court be’ind. ’E’ll ’ave been&#160;seen there, no fear; you needn’t anticipate much trouble in&#160;layin’ ’ands on ’im, sir. I’ll go round there in ’arf a tick.&#160;Now then, sir”—turning to Brotherton—“ ’ave you any&#160;idea wot this party might have looked like?”</p>
<p>Brotherton lifted a wild face, and the doctor interposed.</p>
<p>“I think you ought to know, constable,” he said, “that there was—well, not a murderous attack, but what might&#160;have been one, made on this woman before—about eight&#160;weeks ago—by a man named Marincetti—an Italian</p>
<p>waiter—with a knife.”</p>
<p>“Ah!” The policeman licked his pencil eagerly. “Do you know this party as ’as been mentioned?” he enquired of&#160;Brotherton.</p>
<p>“That’s the man,” said Brotherton, with concentrated fury. “Coming here after my wife—God curse him! I wish&#160;to God I had him dead here beside her!”</p>
<p>“Quite so,” said the policeman. “Now, sir”—to the doctor—“ ’ave you got the weapon wot the crime was&#160;committed with?”</p>
<p>“No,” said Hartman, “there was no weapon in the body when I arrived.”</p>
<p>“Did <span style="font-style:italic;">you</span> take it out?” pursued the constable, to Brotherton.</p>
<p>“No,” said Brotherton, “he took it with him.”</p>
<p>“Took it with ’im,” the constable entered the fact in his notes. “Phew! Wonderful ’ot it is in ’ere, ain’t it, sir?” he&#160;added, mopping his brow.</p>
<p>“It’s the gas-oven, I think,” said Peter mildly. “Uncommon hot thing, a gas-oven, in the middle of July. D’you mind if I turn it out? There’s the chicken inside, but I</p>
<p>don’t suppose you want-”</p>
<p>Brotherton groaned, and the constable said: “Quite right, sir. A man wouldn’t ’ardly fancy ’is dinner after a&#160;thing like this. Thank you, sir. Well now, doctor, wot kind&#160;of weapon do you take this to ’ave been?”</p>
<p>“It was a long, narrow weapon—something like an Italian stiletto, I imagine,” said the doctor, “about six&#160;inches long. It was thrust in with great force under the&#160;fifth rib, and I should say it had pierced the heart centrally. As you see, there has been practically no bleeding.&#160;Such a wound would cause instant death. Was she lying&#160;just as she is now when you first saw her, Mr. Brother-ton?”</p>
<p>“On her back, just as she is,” replied the husband.</p>
<p>“Well, that seems clear enough,” said the policeman. “This ’ere Marinetti, or wotever ’is name is, ’as a grudge</p>
<p>against the poor young lady-”</p>
<p>“I believe he was an admirer,” put in the doctor.</p>
<p>“Quite so,” agreed the constable. “Of course, these foreigners are like that—even the decentest of ’em. Stab-bin’ and such-like seems to come nateral to them, as you</p>
<p>might say. Well, this ’ere Marinetti climbs in ’ere, sees the poor young lady standin’ ’ere by the table all alone, gettin’&#160;the dinner ready; ’e comes in be’ind, catches ’er round the&#160;waist, stabs ’er—easy job, you see; no corsets nor nothink—&#160;she shrieks out, ’e pulls ’is stiletty out of ’er an’ makes&#160;tracks. Well, now we’ve got to find ’im and by your leave,&#160;sir, I’ll be gettin’ along. We’ll ’ave ’im by the ’eels before&#160;long, sir, don’t you worry. I’ll ’ave to put a man in charge&#160;’ere, sir, to keep folks out, but that needn’t worry you.&#160;Good mornin’, gentlemen.”</p>
<p>“May we move the poor girl now?” asked the doctor.</p>
<p>“Certainly. Like me to ’elp you, sir?”</p>
<p>“No. Don’t lose any time. We can manage.” Dr. Hartman turned to Peter as the constable clattered downstairs. “Will you help me, Lord Peter?”</p>
<p>“Bunter’s better at that sort of thing,” said Wimsey, with a hard mouth.</p>
<p>The doctor looked at him in some surprise, but said nothing, and he and Bunter carried the still form away.&#160;Brotherton did not follow them. He sat in a grief-stricken&#160;heap, with his head buried in his hands. Lord Peter&#160;walked about the little kitchen, turning over the various&#160;knives and kitchen utensils, peering into the sink bucket,&#160;and apparently taking an inventory of the bread, butter,&#160;condiments, vegetables, and so forth which lay about in&#160;preparation for the Sunday meal. There were potatoes in&#160;the sink, half peeled, a pathetic witness to the quiet&#160;domestic life which had been so horribly interrupted. The&#160;colander was filled with green peas. Lord Peter turned&#160;these things over with an inquisitive finger, gazed into the&#160;smooth surface of a bowl of dripping as though it were a&#160;divining-crystal, ran his hands several times right through&#160;a bowl of flour—then drew his pipe from his pocket and&#160;filled it slowly.</p>
<p>The doctor returned, and put his hand on Brotherton’s shoulder.</p>
<p>“Come,” he said gently, “we have laid her in the other bedroom. She looks very peaceful. You must remember&#160;that, except for that moment of terror when she saw the&#160;knife, she suffered nothing. It is terrible for you, but you</p>
<p>must try not to give way. The police-”</p>
<p>“The police can’t bring her back to life,” said the man savagely. “She’s dead. Leave me alone, curse you! Leave&#160;me alone, I say!”</p>
<p>He stood up, with a violent gesture.</p>
<p>“You must not sit here,” said Hartman firmly. “I will give you something to take, and you must try to keep&#160;calm. Then we will leave you, but if you don’t control&#160;yourself-”</p>
<p>After some further persuasion, Brotherton allowed himself to be led away.</p>
<p>“Bunter,” said Lord Peter, as the kitchen door closed behind them, “do you know why I am doubtful about the&#160;success of those rat experiments?”</p>
<p>“Meaning Dr. Hartman’s, my lord?”</p>
<p>“Yes. Dr. Hartman has a theory. In any investigation, my Bunter, it is most damnably dangerous to have a&#160;theory.”</p>
<p>“I have heard you say so, my lord.”</p>
<p>“Confound you—you know it as well as I do! What is wrong with the doctor’s theories, Bunter?”</p>
<p>“You wish me to reply, my lord, that he only sees the facts which fit in with the theory.”</p>
<p>“Thought-reader!” exclaimed Lord Peter bitterly.</p>
<p>“And that he supplies them to the police, my lord.” “Hush!” said Peter, as the doctor returned.</p>
<p>“I have got him to lie down,” said Dr. Hartman, “and I think the best thing we can do is to leave him to himself.”</p>
<p>“D’you know,” said Wimsey, “I don’t cotton to that idea, somehow.”</p>
<p>“Why? Do you think he’s likely to destroy himself?” “That’s as good a reason to give as any other, I suppose,” said Wimsey, “when you haven’t got any reason&#160;which can be put into words. But my advice is, don’t leave&#160;him for a moment.”</p>
<p>“But why? Frequently, with a deep grief like this, the presence of other people is merely an irritant. He begged&#160;me to leave him.”</p>
<p>“Then for God’s sake go back to him,” said Peter. “Really, Lord Peter,” said the doctor, “I think I ought&#160;to know what is best for my patient.”</p>
<p>“Doctor,” said Wimsey, “this is not a question of your patient. A crime has been committed.”</p>
<p>“But there is no mystery.”</p>
<p>“There are twenty mysteries. For one thing, when was the window-cleaner here last?”</p>
<p>“The window-cleaner?”</p>
<p>“Who shall fathom the ebony-black enigma of the window-cleaner?” pursued Peter lightly, putting a match to</p>
<p>his pipe. “You are quietly in your bath, in a state of more or less innocent nature, when an untrusive head appears at&#160;the window, like the ghost of Hamilton Tighe, and a&#160;gruff voice, suspended between earth and heaven, says&#160;‘Good morning, sir.* Where do window-cleaners go between visits? Do they hibernate, like busy bees? Do they—&#160;—?”</p>
<p>“Really, Lord Peter,” said the doctor, “don’t you think you’re going a bit beyond the limit?”</p>
<p>“Sorry you feel like that,” said Peter, “but I really want to know about the window-cleaner. Look how clear these&#160;panes are.”</p>
<p>“He came yesterday, if you want to know,” said Dr. Hartman, rather stiffly.</p>
<p>“You are sure?”</p>
<p>• •</p>
<p>“He did mine at the same time.”</p>
<p>“I thought as much,” said Lord Peter. “In the words of the song:</p>
<p>“I thought as much,</p>
<p>It was a little—window-cleaner.</p>
<p>In that case,” he added, “it is absolutely imperative that Brotherton should not be left alone for a moment. Bunter!&#160;Confound it all, where’s that fellow got to?”</p>
<p>The door into the bedroom opened.</p>
<p>“My lord?” Mr. Bunter unobtrusively appeared, as he had unobtrusively stolen out to keep an unobtrusive eye&#160;upon the patient.</p>
<p>“Good,” said Wimsey. “Stay where you are.” His lackadaisical manner had gone, and he looked at the doctor as four years previously he might have looked at a refractory&#160;subaltern.</p>
<p>“Dr. Hartman,” he said, “something is wrong. Cast your mind back. We were talking about symptoms. Then came&#160;the scream. Then came the sound of feet running. <span style="font-style:italic;">Which&#160;direction did they run in?”</span></p>
<p>“I’m sure I don’t now.”</p>
<p>“Don’t you? Symptomatic, though, doctor. They have been troubling me all the time, subconsciously. Now I&#160;know why. They ran <span style="font-style:italic;">from the kitchen ”</span></p>
<p>“Well?”</p>
<p>“Well! And now the window-cleaner-”</p>
<p>“What about him?”</p>
<p>“Could you swear that it wasn’t the window-cleaner who made those marks on the sill?”</p>
<p>“And the man Brotherton saw-■?”</p>
<p>“Have we examined your laboratory roof for his footsteps?”</p>
<p>“But the weapon? Wimsey, this is madness! Someone</p>
<p>took the weapon.”</p>
<p>“I know. But did you think the edge of the wound was clean enough to have been made by a smooth stiletto? It</p>
<p>looked ragged to me.”</p>
<p>“Wimsey, what are you driving at?”</p>
<p>“There’s a clue here in the flat—and I’m damned if I can remember it. I’ve seen it—I know I’ve seen it. It’ll&#160;come to me presently. Meanwhile, don’t let Brother-</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>“Do whatever it is he’s going to do.”</p>
<p>“But what is it?”</p>
<p>“If I could tell you that I could show you the clue. Why couldn’t he make up his mind whether the bedroom door&#160;was open or shut? Very good story, but not quite thought&#160;out. Anyhow—I say, doctor, make some excuse, and strip&#160;him, and bring me his clothes. And send Bunter to me.”&#160;The doctor stared at him, puzzled. Then he made a&#160;gesture of acquiescence and passed into the bedroom.&#160;Lord Peter followed him, casting a ruminating glance at&#160;Brotherton as he went. Once in the sitting-room. Lord&#160;Peter sat down on a red velvet arm-chair, fixed his eyes on&#160;a gilt-framed oleograph, and became wrapped in contemplation.</p>
<p>Presently Bunter came in, with his arms full of clothing. Wimsey took it, and began to search it, methodically&#160;enough, but listlessly. Suddenly he dropped the garments,&#160;and turned to the manservant.</p>
<p>“No,” he said, “this is a precaution, Bunter mine, but I’m on the wrong tack. It wasn’t here I saw—whatever I&#160;did see. It was in the kitchen. Now, what was it?”</p>
<p>“I could not say, my lord, but I entertain a conviction that I was also, in a manner of speaking, conscious—not&#160;consciously conscious, my lord, if you understand me, but&#160;still conscious of an incongruity.”</p>
<p>“Hurray!” said Wimsey suddenly. “Cheer-oh! for the sub-conscious what’s-his-name! Now let’s remember the&#160;kitchen. I cleared out of it because I was gettin* obfuscated. Now then. Begin at the door. Fryin’-pans and&#160;saucepans on the wall. Gas-stove—oven goin’—chicken&#160;inside. Rack of wooden spoons on the wall, gas-lighter,&#160;pan-lifter. Stop me when I’m gettin’ hot. Mantelpiece.</p>
<p>Spice-boxes and stuff. Anything wrong with them? no. Dresser. Plates. Knives and forks—all clean; flour&#160;dredger—milk-jug—sieve on the wall—nutmeg-grater.&#160;Three-tier steamer. Looked inside—no grisly secrets in&#160;the steamer.”</p>
<p>“Did you look in all the dresser drawers, my lord?”</p>
<p>“No. That could be done. But the point is, I <span style="font-style:italic;">did</span> notice somethin’. What did I notice? That’s the point. Never&#160;mind. On with the dance—let joy be unconfined! Knife-board. Knife-powder. Kitchen table. Did you speak?”</p>
<p>“No,” said Bunter, who had moved from his attitude of wooden deference.</p>
<p>“Table stirs a chord. Very good. On table. Choppin’-board. Remains of ham and herb stuffin’. Packet of suet. Another sieve. Several plates. Butter in a glass dish. Bowl</p>
<p>“About the drippin’! Oh, my head! What’s that they say in <span style="font-style:italic;">Dear Brutus</span>, Bunter? ‘Hold on to the workbox.’ That’s&#160;right. Hold on to the drippin’. Beastly slimy stuff to hold</p>
<p>on too-Wait!”</p>
<p>There was a pause.</p>
<p>“When I was a kid,” said Wimsey, “I used to love to go down into the kitchen and talk to old cookie. Good old&#160;soul she was, too. I can see her now, gettin’ chicken&#160;ready, with me danglin’ my legs on the table. <span style="font-style:italic;">She</span> used to&#160;pluck an’ draw ’em herself. I revelled in it. Little beasts&#160;boys are, ain’t they, Bunter? Pluck it, draw it, wash it,&#160;stuff it, tuck its little tail through its little what-you-may-</p>
<p>call-it, truss it, grease the dish-Bunter?”</p>
<p>“My lord!”</p>
<p>“Hold on to the dripping!”</p>
<p>“The bowl, my lord-”</p>
<p>“The bowl—visualise it—what was wrong?”</p>
<p>“It was full, my lord!”</p>
<p>“Got it—got it<span style="font-style:italic;">—got</span> it! The bowl was full— smooth surface. Golly! I knew there was something queer&#160;about it. Now why shouldn’t it be full? Hold on to</p>
<p>the-”</p>
<p>“The bird was in the oven.”</p>
<p>“Without dripping!”</p>
<p>“Very careless cookery, my lord.”</p>
<p>“The bird—in the oven—no dripping. Bunter! Suppose it was never put in till after she was dead? Thrust in</p>
<p>hurriedly by someone who had something to hide</p>
<p>horrible!”</p>
<p>“But with what object, my lord?”</p>
<p>“Yes, why? That’s the point. One more mental association with the bird. It’s just coming. Wait a moment. Pluck, draw, wash, stuff, tuck up, truss-By God!”</p>
<p>“My lord?”</p>
<p>“Come on, Bunter. Thank Heaven we turned off the</p>
<p>g<sup>as</sup>!” <sub>k</sub> &#160;&#160;&#160;y</p>
<p>He dashed through the bedroom, disregarding the doctor and the patient, who sat up with a smothered shriek. He flung open the oven door and snatched out the baking-tin. The skin of the bird had just begun to discolour. With&#160;a little gasp of triumph, Wimsey caugh the iron ring that&#160;protruded from the wing, and jerked out—the six-inch&#160;spiral skewer.</p>
<p>The doctor was struggling with the excited Brotherton in the doorway. Wimsey caught the man as he broke away,&#160;and shook him into the corner with a jiu-jitsu twist.</p>
<p>“Here is the weapon,” he said.</p>
<p>“Prove it, blast you!” said Brotherton savagely.</p>
<p>“I will,” said Wimsey. “Bunter, call in the policeman whom you will find at the door. Doctor, we shall need&#160;your microscope.”</p>
<p>In the laboratory the doctor bent over the microscope. A thin layer of blood from the skewer had been spread&#160;upon the slide.</p>
<p>“Well?” said Wimsey impatiently.</p>
<p>“It’s all right,” said Hartman. “The roasting didn’t get anywhere near the middle. My God, Wimsey, yes, you’re&#160;right—round corpuscles, diameter 1/3621—mamalian&#160;blood—probably human-”</p>
<p>“Her blood,” said Wimsey.</p>
<p>“It was very clever, Bunter,” said Lord Peter, as the taxi trundled along the way to his flat in Piccadilly. “If&#160;that fowl had gone on roasting a bit longer the blood-corpuscles might easily have been destroyed beyond all&#160;hope of recognition. It all goes to show that the unpremeditated crime is usually the safest.”</p>
<p>“And what does your lordship take the man’s motive to have been?”</p>
<p>“In my youth,” said Wimsey meditatively, “they used to make me read the Bible. Trouble was, the only books I&#160;ever took to naturally were the ones they weren’t over and</p>
<p>above keen on. But I got to know the Song of Songs pretty well by heart. Look it up, Bunter; at your age it won’t&#160;hurt you; it talks sense about jealousy.”</p>
<p>“I have perused the work in question, your lordship,” replied Mr. Bunter, with a sallow blush. “It says, if I&#160;remember rightly: <span style="font-style:italic;">‘Jealousy is cruel as the graveJ ”</span></p>
<p>I</p>
<p>THE BIBULOUS BUSINESS OF</p>
</body>
</html>