<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head><meta name="charset" content="UTF-8"/><title></title><link rel="stylesheet" href="main.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><h1><a id="bookmark0"></a>THE CAT IN THE BAG</h1>
<p>The Great North Road wound away like a flat, steel-grey ribbon. Up it, with the sun and wind behind them, two&#160;black specks moved swiftly. To the yokel in charge of the&#160;hay-wagon they were only two of “they dratted motorcyclists,” as they barked and zoomed past him in rapid&#160;succession. A little farther on, a family man, driving&#160;delicately with a two-seater side-car, grinned as the sharp&#160;rattle of the o.h.v. Norton was succeeded by the feline&#160;shriek of an angry Scott Flying-Squirrel. He, too, in&#160;bachelor days, had taken a side in that perennial feud. He&#160;sighed regretfully as he watched the racing machines&#160;dwindle away northwards.</p>
<p>At that abominable and unexpected S-bend across the bridge above Hatfield, the Norton man, in the pride of his&#160;heart, turned to wave a defiant hand at his pursuer. In&#160;that second, the enormous bulk of a loaded charabanc&#160;loomed down upon him from the bridgehead. He wrenched&#160;himself away from it in a fierce wobble, and the&#160;Scott, cornering melodramatically, with left and right&#160;foot-rests alternately skimming the tarmac, gained a few&#160;triumphant yards. The Norton leapt forward with wide-open throttle. A party of children, seized with sdden&#160;panic, rushed helter-skelter across the road. The Scott&#160;lurched through them in drunken swerves. The road was&#160;clear, and the chase settled down once more.</p>
<p>It is not known why motorists, who sing the joys of the open road, spend so much petrol every week-end grinding&#160;their way to Southend and Brighton and Margate, in the&#160;stench of each other’s exhausts, one hand on the horn and&#160;one foot on the brake, their eyes starting from their orbits&#160;in the nerve-racking search for cops, corners, blind turnings, and cross-road suicides. They ride in a baffled fury,&#160;hating each other. They arrive with shattered nerves and&#160;fight for parking places. They return, blinded by the head-</p>
<p>lights of fresh arrivals, whom they hate even worse than they hate each other. And all the time the Great North&#160;Road winds away like a long, flat, steel-grey ribbon—a&#160;surface like a race-track, without traps, without hedges,&#160;without side-roads, and without traffic. True, it leads to&#160;nowhere in particular; but, after all, one pub is very much&#160;like another.</p>
<p>The tarmac reeled away, mile after mile. The sharp turn to the right at Baldock, the involute intricacies of&#160;Biggleswade, with its multiplication of sign-posts, gave&#160;temporary check, but brought the pursuer no nearer.&#160;Through Tempsford at full speed, with bellowing horn and&#160;exhaust, then, screaming like a hurricane past the R.A.C.&#160;post where the road forks in from Bedford. The Norton&#160;rider again glanced back; the Scott rider again sounded his&#160;horn ferociously. Flat as a chessboard, dyke and field&#160;revolved about the horizon.</p>
<p>The constable at Eaton Socon was by no means an anti-motor fiend. In fact, he had just alighted from his&#160;push-bike to pass the time of day with the A.A. man on&#160;point duty at the cross-roads. But he was just and Godfearing. The sight of two maniacs careering at seventy&#160;miles an hour into his protectorate was more than he&#160;could be expected to countenance—the more, that the&#160;local magistrate happened to be passing at that very&#160;moment in a pony-trap. He advanced to the middle of the&#160;road, spreading his arms in a majestic manner. The Norton rider looked, saw the road beyond complicated by the&#160;pony-trap and a traction-engine, and resigned himself to&#160;the inevitable. He flung the throttle-lever back, stamped&#160;on his squealing brakes, and skidded to a standstill. The&#160;Scott, having had notice, came up mincingly, with a voice&#160;like a pleased kitten.</p>
<p>“Now, then,” said the constable, in a tone of reproof, “ain’t you got no more sense than to come drivin’ into the&#160;town at a ’undred mile an hour. This ain’t Brooklands, you&#160;know. I never see anything like it. ’Ave to take your&#160;names and numbers, if <span style="font-style:italic;">you</span> please. You’ll bear witness,&#160;Mr. Nadgett, as they was doin’ over eighty.”</p>
<p>The A.A. man, after a swift glance over the two sets of handle-bars to assure himself that the black sheep were&#160;not of his flock, said, with an air of impartial accuracy,&#160;“About sixty-six and a half, I should say, if you was to ask&#160;me in court.”</p>
<p>“Look here, you blighter,” said the Scott man indignantly to the Norton man, “why the hell couldn’t you stop</p>
<p>when you heard me hoot? I’ve been chasing you with your beastly bag nearly thirty miles. Why can’t you look after&#160;your own rotten luggage?”</p>
<p>He indicated a small, stout bag, tied with string to his own carrier.</p>
<p>“That?” said the Norton man, with scorn. “What do you mean? It’s not mine. Never saw it in my life.”</p>
<p>This bare-faced denial threatened to render the Scott rider speechless.</p>
<p>“Of all the-” he gasped. “Why, you crimson idiot, I</p>
<p>saw it fall off, just the other side of Hatfield. I yelled and blew like fury. I suppose that overhead gear of yours&#160;makes so much noise you can’t hear anything else. I take&#160;the trouble to pick the thing up, and go after you, and all&#160;you do is to race off like a lunatic and run me into a cop.&#160;Fat lot of thanks one gets for trying to be decent to fools&#160;on the road.”</p>
<p>“That ain’t neither here nor there,” said the policeman. “Your license, please, sir.”</p>
<p>“Here you are,” said the Scott man, ferociously flapping out his pocket-book. “My name’s Walters, and it’s the last&#160;time I’ll try to do anybody a good turn, you can lay your&#160;shirt.”</p>
<p>“Walters,” said the constable, entering the particulars laboriously in his note-book, “and Simpkins. You’ll ’ave&#160;your summonses in doo course. It’ll be for about a week&#160;’ence, on Monday or thereabouts, I shouldn’t wonder.”&#160;“Another forty bob gone west,” growled Mr. Simpkins,&#160;toying with his throttle. “Oh, well, can’t be helped, I&#160;suppose.”</p>
<p>“Forty bob?” snorted the constable. “What do <span style="font-style:italic;">you </span>think? Furious driving to the common danger, that’s wot&#160;it is. You’ll be lucky to get off with five quid apiece.”</p>
<p>“Oh, blast!” said the other, stamping furiously on the kick-starter. The engine roared into life, but Mr. Walters&#160;dexterously swung his machine across the Norton’s&#160;path.</p>
<p>“Oh, no, you don’t,” he said viciously. “You jolly well take your bleeding bag, and no nonsense. I tell you, I <span style="font-style:italic;">saw&#160;</span>it fall off.”&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;| 9r j</p>
<p>“Now, no language,” began the constable, when he suddenly became aware that the A.A. man was staring in&#160;a very odd manner at the bag and making signs to him.</p>
<p>“ ’Ullo,” he demanded, “wot’s the matter with the— bleedin’ bag, did you say? ’Ere, I’d like to ’ave a look at&#160;that ’ere bag, sir, if you don’t mind.”</p>
<p>“It’s nothing to do with me,” said Mr. Walters, handing</p>
<p>it over. “I saw it fall off and-” His voice died away in</p>
<p>his throat, and his eyes became fixed upon one corner of the bag, where something damp and horrible was seeping&#160;darkly through.</p>
<p>“Did you notice this ’ere corner when you picked it up?” asked the constable. He prodded it gingerly and&#160;looked at his fingers.</p>
<p>“I don’t know—no—not particularly,” stammered Walters. “I didn’t notice anything. I—I expect it burst when it hit the road.”</p>
<p>The constable probed the split seam in silence, and then turned hurriedly round to wave away a couple of young&#160;women who had stopped to stare. The A.A. man peered&#160;curiously, and then started back with a sensation of sickness.</p>
<p>“Ow, Gawd!” he gasped. “It’s curly—it’s a woman’s.”</p>
<p>“It’s not me,” screamed Simpkins. “I swear to heaven it’s not mine. This man’s trying to put it across me.”</p>
<p>“Me?” gasped Walters. “Me? Why, you filthy, murdering brute, I tell you I saw it fall off your carrier. No wonder you blinded off when you saw me coming. Arrest&#160;him, constable. Take him away to prison-”</p>
<p>“Hullo, officer!” said a voice behind them. “What’s all the excitement? You haven’t seen a motor-cyclist go by&#160;with a little bag on his carrier, I suppose?”</p>
<p>A big open car with an unnaturally long bonnet had slipped up to them, silent as an owl. The whole agitated&#160;party with one accord turned upon the driver.</p>
<p>“Would this be it, sir?”</p>
<p>The motorist pushed off his goggles, disclosing a long, narrow nose and a pair of rather cynical-looking grey&#160;eyes.</p>
<p>“It looks rather-” he began; and then, catching sight</p>
<p>of the horrid relic protruding from one corner, “In God’s name,” he enquired, “what’s that?”</p>
<p>“That’s what we’d like to know, sir,” said the constable grimly.</p>
<p>“H’m,” said the motorist, “I seem to have chosen an uncommonly suitable moment for enquirin’ after my bag.&#160;Tactless. To say now that it is not my bag is simple,&#160;though in no way convincing. As a matter of fact, it is not&#160;mine, and I may say that, if it had been, I should not have&#160;been at any pains to pursue it.”</p>
<p>The constable scratched his head.</p>
<p>“Both these gentlemen-” he began.</p>
<p>The two cyclists burst into simultaneous and heated disclaimers. By this time a small crowd had collected,&#160;which the A.A. scout helpfully tried to shoo away.</p>
<p>“You’ll all ’ave to come with me to the station,” said the harassed constable. “Can’t stand ’ere ’oldin’ up the&#160;traffic. No tricks, now. You wheel them bikes, and I’ll&#160;come in the car with you, sir.”</p>
<p>“But supposing I was to let her rip and kidnap you,” said the motorist, with a grin. “Where’d you be? Here,” he&#160;added, turning to the A.A. man, “can you handle this&#160;outfit?”</p>
<p>“You bet,” said the scout, his eye running lovingly over the long sweep of the exhaust and the rakish lines of the</p>
<p>car.</p>
<p>“Right. Hop in. Now, officer, you can toddle along with the other suspects and keep an eye on them. Wonderful&#160;head I’ve got for detail. By the way, that foot-brake’s on&#160;the fierce side. Don’t bully it, or you’ll surprise your-</p>
<p>seif.”</p>
<p>The lock of the bag was forced at the police-station in the midst of an excitement unparalleled in the calm annals&#160;of Eaton Socon, and the dreadful contents laid reverently&#160;upon a table. Beyond a quantity of cheese-cloth in which&#160;they had been wrapped, there was nothing to supply any&#160;clue to the mystery.</p>
<p>“Now,” said the superintendent, “what do you gentlemen know about this?”</p>
<p>“Nothing whatever,” said Mr. Simpkins, with a ghastly countenance, “except that this man tried to palm it off on&#160;me.”</p>
<p>“I saw it fall off this man’s carrier just the other side of Hatfield,” repeated Mr. Walters firmly, “and I rode after&#160;him for thirty miles trying to stop him. That’s all I know&#160;about it, and I wish to God I’d never touched the beastly&#160;thing.”</p>
<p>“Nor do I know anything about it personally,” said the car-owner, “but I fancy I know what it is.”</p>
<p>“What’s that?” asked the superintendent sharply.</p>
<p>“I rather imagine it’s the head of the Finsbury Park murder—though, mind you, that’s only a guess.”</p>
<p>“That’s just what I’ve been thinking myself,” agreed the superintendent, glancing at a daily paper which lay on his&#160;desk, its headlines lurid with the details of that very horrid&#160;crime, “and, if so, you are to be congratulated, constable,&#160;on a very important capture.”</p>
<p>“Thank you, sir,” said the gratified officer, saluting.</p>
<p>“Now I’d better take all your statements,” said the superintendent. “No, no; I’ll hear the constable first. Yes,&#160;Briggs?”</p>
<p>The constable, the A.A. man, and the two motorcyclists having given their versions of the story, the superintendent&#160;turned to the motorist.</p>
<p>“And what have you got to say about it?” he enquired. “First of all, your name and address.”</p>
<p>The other produced a card, which the superintendent copied out and returned to him respectfully.</p>
<p>“A bag of mine, containing some valuable jewellery, was stolen from my car yesterday, in Piccadilly,” began&#160;the motorist. “It is very much like this, but has a cipher&#160;lock. I made enquiries through Scotland Yard, and was&#160;informed to-day that a bag of precisely similar appearance&#160;had been cloak-roomed yesterday afternoon at Paddington, main line. I hurried round there, and was told by the&#160;clerk that just before the police warning came through the&#160;bag had been claimed by a man in motor-cycling kit. A&#160;porter said he saw the man leave the station, and a&#160;loiterer observed him riding off on a motor-bicycle. That&#160;was about an hour before. It seemed pretty hopeless, as,&#160;of course, nobody had noticed even the make of the bike,&#160;let alone the number. Fortunately, however, there was a&#160;smart little girl. The smart little girl had been dawdling&#160;round outside the station, and had heard a motor-cyclist&#160;ask a taxi-driver the quickest route to Finchley. I left the&#160;police hunting for the taxi-driver, and started off, and in&#160;Finchley I found an intelligent boy-scout. He had seen a&#160;motor-cyclist with a bag on the carrier, and had waved&#160;and shouted to him that the strap was loose. The cyclist&#160;had got off and tightened the strap, and gone straight on&#160;up the road towards Chipping Barnet. The boy hadn’t&#160;been near enough to identify the machine—the only thing&#160;he knew for certain was that it wasn’t a Douglas, his&#160;brother having one of that sort. At Barnet I got an odd little&#160;story of a man in a motor-coat who had staggered into a&#160;pub with a ghastly white face and drunk two double&#160;brandies and gone out and ridden off furiously. Number?—&#160;of course not. The barmaid told me. <span style="font-style:italic;">She</span> didn’t notice the&#160;number. After that it was a tale of furious driving all&#160;along the road. After Hatfield, I got the story of a&#160;road-race. And here we are.”</p>
<p>“It seems to me my lord,” said the superintendent, “that the furious driving can’t have been all on one side.”</p>
<p>“I admit it,” said the other, “though I do plead in</p>
<p>extenuation that I spared the women and children And hit up the miles in the wide, open spaces. 1 he point at the</p>
<p>moment is-**</p>
<p>“Well, my lord/* said the superintendent* *l\e got your story, and. if it’s all right, it can be verified b\ enquiry at&#160;Paddington and Finchley and so on. Now. as tor these two&#160;gentlemen—</p>
<p>“It’s perfectly obvious.” broke in Mr. Walters, “the bag dropped off this man's carrier, and. when he saw me&#160;coming after him with it, he thought it was a good&#160;opportunity to saddle me with the cursed thing. Nothing&#160;could be clearer.&quot;</p>
<p>“Its a lie,*’ said Mr, Simpkins. “Here's this fellow has got hold of the bag I don't say how . but I can guess—&#160;and he has the bright idea of shoving the blame on me.&#160;It’s easy enough to <span style="font-style:italic;">say</span> a thing’s fallen off a man's carrier.&#160;Where's the proof? Where's the strap? If his story's true,&#160;you’d find the broken strap on my ‘bus. The bag h-ubp on&#160;<span style="font-style:italic;">his</span> machine—tied on, tight.&quot;</p>
<p>“Yes, with string.&quot; retorted the other. “If Vd gone and murdered someone and run off with their head, do vou&#160;think I'd be such an ass as to tie it on with bit of&#160;twopenny twine? The strap's worked loose and fallen off&#160;on the road somew here; that's what's happened to that.&quot;</p>
<p>“Well, look here,&quot; said the man addressed as “mv lord.&quot; “I've got an idea for what it's worth. Suppose, superintendent, you turn out as many of your men as you think&#160;adequate to keep an eye on three desperate criminals, and&#160;we all tool down to Hatfield together. <span style="font-style:italic;">\</span> can take two in&#160;my 'bus at a pinch, and no doubt you have a police car. If&#160;this thing <span style="font-style:italic;">did</span> fall off the carrier, somebody beside Mr,&#160;Walters may have seen it fall.**</p>
<p>“They didn't,&quot; said Mr. Simpkins.</p>
<p>“There wasn't a soul,&quot; said Mr. Walters, “but how do <span style="font-style:italic;">you</span> know there wasn't, eh? I thought you didn't know&#160;anything about it.&quot;</p>
<p>“1 mean, it didn't fall off. so nobody <span style="font-style:italic;">couU</span> have seen it,&quot; gasped the other.</p>
<p>“Well, my lord.” said the superintendent, “l‘m inclined to accept your suggestion, as it gives us a chance of&#160;enquiring into your story at the same time. Mind you, I'm&#160;not saying 1 doubt it, you being who vou are. I Ye read&#160;about some of your detective work, my lord, and very&#160;smart 1 considered it. But. still, it wouldn't be my dut&gt; not&#160;to get corroborative evidence if possible.&quot;</p>
<p>“Good egg! Quite right,&quot; said his lordship. “Forward the</p>
<p>light brigade. We can do it easily in—that is to say, at the legal rate of progress it needn’t take us much over an hour&#160;and a half.”</p>
<p>About three-quarters of an hour later, the racing car and the police car loped quietly side by side into Hatfield.&#160;Henceforward, the four-seater, in which Walters and&#160;Simpkins sat glaring at each other, took the lead, and&#160;presently Walters waved his hand and both cars came to a&#160;stop.</p>
<p>“It was just about here, as near as I can remember, that it fell off,” he said. “Of course, there’s no trace of it&#160;now.”</p>
<p>“You’re quite sure as there wasn’t a strap fell off with</p>
<p>it?” suggested the superintendent, “because, you see, there</p>
<p>must *a’ been something holding it on.”</p>
<p>“Of course there wasn’t a strap,” said Simpkins, white</p>
<p>with passion. “You haven’t any business to ask him leading</p>
<p>questions like that.”</p>
<p>“Wait a minute,” said Walters slowly. “No, there was</p>
<p>no strap. But I’ve got a sort of recollection of seeing</p>
<p>something on the road about a quarter of a mile father »»</p>
<p>up.</p>
<p>“It’s a lie!” screamed Simpkins. “He’s inventing it.” “Just about where we passed that man with the side-car&#160;a minute or two ago,” said his lordship. “I told you we&#160;ought to have stopped and asked if we could help him,&#160;superintendent. Courtesy of the road, you know, and all&#160;that.”</p>
<p>“He couldn’t have told us anything,” said the superintendent. “He’d probably only just stopped.”</p>
<p>“I’m not so sure,” said the other. “Didn’t you notice what he was doing? Oh, dear, dear, where were your eyes?&#160;Hullo! here he comes.”</p>
<p>He sprang out into the road and waved to the rider, who, seeing four policemen, thought it better to pull up.</p>
<p>“Excuse me,” said his lordship. “Thought we’d just like to stop you and ask if you were all right, and all that sort&#160;of thing, you know. Wanted to stop in passing, throttle&#160;jammed open, couldn’t shut the confounded thing. Little&#160;trouble, what?”</p>
<p>“Oh, yes, perfectly all right, thanks, except that I would be glad if you could spare a gallon of petrol. Tank came&#160;adrift. Beastly nuisance. Had a bit of a struggle. Happily,&#160;Providence placed a broken strap in my way and I’ve&#160;fixed it. Spilt a bit, though, where that bolt came off.</p>
<p>Lucky not to have an explosion, but there’s a special cherub for motor-cyclists.”</p>
<p>“Strap, eh?” said the superintendent. “Afraid 111 have to trouble you to let me have a look at that.”</p>
<p>“What?” said the other. “And just as I’ve got the damned</p>
<p>thing fixed? What-? All right, dear, all right”—to his</p>
<p>passenger. “Is it something serious, officer?”</p>
<p>“Afraid so, sir. Sorry to trouble you.”</p>
<p>“Hi!” yelled one of the policemen, neatly fielding Mr. Simpkins as he was taking a dive over the back of the car.&#160;“No use doin’ that. You’re for it, my lad.”</p>
<p>“No doubt about it,” said the superintendent triumphantly, snatching at the strap which the side-car rider held out to him. “Here’s his name on it, ‘J. Simpkins,’&#160;written on in ink as large as life. Very much obliged to&#160;<span style="font-style:italic;">you</span> sir, I’m sure. You’ve helped us effect a very important&#160;capture.”</p>
<p>“No! <span style="font-style:italic;">Who</span> is it?” cried the girl in the side-car. “How frightfully thrilling! Is it a murder?”</p>
<p>“Look in your paper to-morrow, miss,” said the superintendent, “and you may see something. Here, Briggs, better put the handcuffs on him.”</p>
<p>“And how about my tank?” said the man mournfully. “It’s all right for you to be excited, Babs, but you’ll have&#160;to get out and help push.”</p>
<p>“Oh, no,” said his lordship. “Here’s a strap. A <span style="font-style:italic;">much </span>nicer strap. A really superior strap. And petrol. <span style="font-style:italic;">And a.&#160;</span>pocket-flask. Everything a young man ought to know.&#160;And, when you’re in town, mind you both look me up.&#160;Lord Peter Wimsey, 110a Piccadilly. Delighted to see you&#160;any time. Chin, chin!”</p>
<p>“Cheerio!” said the other, wiping his lips and much mollified. “Only too charmed to be of use. Remember it in&#160;my favour, officer, next time you catch me speeding.”</p>
<p>“Very fortunate we spotted him,” said the superintendent complacently, as they continued their way into Hatfield. “Quite providential, as you might say.”</p>
<p>“I’ll come across with it,” said the wretched Simpkins, sitting handcuffed in the Hatfield police-station. “I swear&#160;to God I know nothing whatever about it—about the&#160;murder, I mean. There’s a man I know who has a jewellery business in Birmingham. I don’t know him very well.&#160;In fact, I only met him at Southend last Easter, and we&#160;got pally. His name’s Owen—Thomas Owen. He wrote me&#160;yesterday and said he’d accidentally left a bag in the</p>
<p>cloakroom at Paddington and asked if I’d take it out—he enclosed the ticket—and bring it up next time I came that&#160;way. I’m in transport service, you see—you’ve got my&#160;card—and I’m always up and down the country. As it&#160;happened, I was just going up in that direction with this&#160;Norton, so I fetched the thing out at lunch-time and&#160;started off with it. I didn’t notice the date on the cloakroom ticket. I know there wasn’t anything to pay on it, so&#160;it can’t have been there long. Well, it all went just as you&#160;said up to Finchley, and there that boy told me my strap&#160;was loose and I went to tighten it up. And then I noticed&#160;that the comer of the bag was split, and it was damp—&#160;and—well, I saw what you saw. That sort of turned me&#160;over, and I lost my head. The only thing I could think of&#160;was to get rid of it, quick. I remembered there were a lot&#160;of lonely stretches on the Great North Road, so I cut the&#160;strap nearly through—that was when I stopped for that&#160;drink at Barnet—and then, when I thought there wasn’t&#160;anybody in sight, I just reached back and gave it a tug,&#160;and it went—strap and all; I hadn’t put it through the&#160;slots. It fell off, just like a great weight dropping off my&#160;mind. I suppose Walters must just have come round into&#160;sight as it fell. I had to slow down a mile or two farther&#160;on for some sheep going into a field, and then I heard him&#160;hooting at me—and—oh, my God!”</p>
<p>He groaned, and buried his head in his hands.</p>
<p>“I see,” said the Eaton Socon superintendent. “Well,</p>
<p>that’s your statement. Now, about this Thomas Owen-”</p>
<p>“Oh,” cried Lord Peter Wimsey, “never mind Thomas Owen. He’s not the man you want. You can’t suppose that&#160;a bloke who’d committed a murder would want a fellow&#160;tailin’ after him to Birmingham with the head. It stands to&#160;reason that was intended to stay in Paddington cloakroom&#160;till the ingenious perpetrator had skipped, or till it was&#160;unrecognisable, or both. Which, by the way, is where we’ll&#160;find those family heirlooms of mine, which your engaging&#160;friend Mr. Owen lifted out of my car. Now, Mr. Simpkins, just pull yourself together and tell us who was&#160;standing next to you at the cloakroom when you took out&#160;that bag. Try hard to remember, because this jolly little&#160;island is no place for him, and he’ll be taking the next&#160;boat while we stand talking.</p>
<p>“I can’t remember,” moaned Simpkins. “I didn’t notice. My head’s all in a whirl.”</p>
<p>“Never mind. Go back. Think quietly. Make a picture of</p>
<p>yourself getting off your machine—leaning it up against</p>
<p>something-”</p>
<p>“No, I put it on the stand.”</p>
<p>“Good! That’s the way. Nov/, think—you’re taking the cloakroom ticket out of your pocket and going up—trying&#160;to attract the man’s attention.”</p>
<p>“I couldn’t at first. There was an old lady trying to cloakroom a canary, and a very bustling man in a hurry&#160;with some golf-clubs. He was quite rude to a quiet little&#160;man with a—by Jove! yes, a hand-bag like that one. Yes,&#160;that’s it. The timid man had had it on the counter quite a&#160;long time, and the big man pushed him aside. I don’t know&#160;what happened, quite, because mine was handed out to me&#160;just then. The big man pushed his luggage in front of both&#160;of us and I had to reach over it—and I suppose—yes, I&#160;must have taken the wrong one. Good God! Do you mean&#160;to say that that timid little insignificant-looking man was a&#160;murderer?”</p>
<p>“Lots of ’em like that,” put in the Hatfield superintendent. “But what was he like—come!”</p>
<p>“He was only about five foot five, and he wore a soft hat and a long, dust-coloured coat. He was very ordinary,&#160;with rather weak, prominent eyes, I think, but I’m not&#160;sure I should know him again. Oh, wait a minute! I do&#160;remember one thing. He had an odd scar—crescentshaped—under his left eye.”</p>
<p>“That settles it,” said Lord Peter. “I thought as much. Did you recognise the—the face when we took it out,&#160;superintendent? No? I did. It was Dahlia Dallmeyer, the&#160;actress, who is supposed to have sailed for America last&#160;week. And the short man with the cresent-shaped scar is&#160;her husband, Philip Storey. Sordid tale and all that. She&#160;ruined him, treated him like dirt, and was unfaithful to&#160;him, but it looks as though he had had the last word in the&#160;argument. And now, I imagine, the Law will have the last&#160;word with him. Get busy on the wires, superintendent, and&#160;you might ring up the Paddington people and tell ’em to&#160;let me have my bag before Mr. Thomas Owen tumbles&#160;to it that there’s been a slight mistake.”</p>
<p>“Well, anyhow,” said Mr. Walters, extending a magnanimous hand to the abashed Mr. Simpkins, “it was a top-hole race—well worth a summons. We must have a return match one of these days.”</p>
<p>Early the following morning a little, insignificantlooking man stepped aboard the trans-Atlantic liner <span style="font-style:italic;">Volu</span>-</p>
<p><span style="font-style:italic;">cria.</span> At the head of the gangway two men blundered into him. The younger of the two, who carried a small bag,&#160;was turning to apologise, when a light of recognition&#160;flashed across his face.</p>
<p>“Why, if it isn’t Mr. Storey!” he exclaimed loudly. “Where are you off to? I haven’t seen you for an age.”</p>
<p>“I’m afraid,” said Philip Storey, “I haven’t the pleasure—</p>
<p>“Cut it out,” said the other, laughing. “I’d know that scar of yours anywhere. Going out to the States?”</p>
<p>“Well, yes,” said the other, seeing that his acquaintance’s boisterous manner was attracting attention. “I beg your pardon. It’s Lord Peter Wimsey, isn’t it? Yes. I’m&#160;joining the wife out there.”</p>
<p>“And how is she?” enquired Wimsey, steering the way into the bar and sitting down at a table. “Left last week,&#160;didn’t she? I saw it in the papers.”</p>
<p>“Yes. She’s just cabled me to join her. We’re—er— taking a holiday in—er—the lakes. Very pleasant there in&#160;summer.”</p>
<p>“Cabled you, did she? And so here we are on the same boat. Odd how things turn out, what? I only got my&#160;sailing orders at the last minute. Chasing criminals—my&#160;hobby, you know.”</p>
<p>“Oh, really?” Mr. Storey licked his lips.</p>
<p>“Yes. This is Detective-Inspector Parker of Scotland Yard—great pal of mine. Yes. Very unpleasant matter,&#160;annoying and all that. Bag that ought to have been reposin’ peacefully at Paddington Station turns up at Eaton&#160;Socon. No business there, what?”</p>
<p>He smacked the bag on the table so violently that the lock sprang open.</p>
<p>Storey leapt to his feet with a shriek, flinging his arms across the opening of the bag as though to hide its&#160;contents.</p>
<p>“How did you get that?” he screamed. “Eaton Socon?</p>
<p>It—I never-”</p>
<p>“It’s mine,” said Wimsey quietly, as the wretched man sank back, realising that he had betrayed himself. “Some&#160;jewellery of my mother’s. What did you think it was?”&#160;Detective Parker touched his charge gently on the&#160;shoulder.</p>
<p>“You needn’t answer that,” he said. “I arrest you, Philip Storey, for the murder of your wife. Anything that you&#160;say may be used against you.”</p>
<p>THE UNPRINCIPLED AFFAIR OF</p>
</body>
</html>